Diagnosis: Bilateral RD Repairs Bilteral Pseudophakia Left Vitrectomy/Peel for Epiretinal Membrane (ERM) Right ERM  Unaided Vision: RE 6/60 LE 6/24  Outcome: Listed for Right Vitrectomy/ERM Peel  This pleasant lady attended clinic today reporting being troubled by significant diplopia and distortion in her right eye in particular. Examination and OCT scanning confirmed a right epiretinal membrane. We discussed the risks and benefits of surgery and ahe is keen to proceed. The ERM peel may well improve the distortion and some of the diplopia but we have warned her that their is a gaurded prognosis for her acuity. We have listed for surgery as a day case under local anaesthesia on the 9th October 2012. We shall of course keep you informed of her prognosis.
This 79 year old man attended the clinic for a routine post op follow up visit. Operated eye is settling down well.  His principal diagnosis is right cataract and left pseudophakia.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 15 Apr 2013.
This 85 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Her principal diagnosis is left conjuctival melanoma secondary to PAM with atypia.  Her visual acuity is RE 6/6 LE LE 6/6.  There is no evidence  any reocurrance of her melanoma in the left eye.  We will continue to observe her in 4 months time.
I reviewed this young girl in clinic today who complains of lateral eiphora for which she is keen for surgery. I have listed her for lateral canthoplasty and small lateral tarsorraphy BE under GA.  She has a provisional date for 11th March
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas right laser retinal adhesion formation   - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
I reviewed this lady in clinic today who had biopsy excision of a right lower lid lesion three weeeks ago. The histology has shown a collection of dilated ectactic blood vessels with inflammatory infiltrate. No malignancy was seen. As it was a slightly unusual lesion we have opted to take photographs today and review her again in a few months time to ensure that there is no suspicious change.  Many thanks
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  His principal diagnosis is right cataract.  I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. We discussed the guarded prognosis due to age related macular degenaration. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 23 Apr 2013.
This 80 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit following recent left cataract surgery.  The operated eye is settling down well and the patient is happy with the improvement in vision.  I have asked him to taper the steroid eye drops to the operated eye, listed him for a similar procedure to the fellow eye and will keep you informed of their progress. Of note is that this gentleman appears to have postural hypotension with a BP that was recorded as 92/57 in clinic today. I would be grateful if you reviewed his medication see if anything can be done about this.
Diagnosis: Right Full Thickness Macular Hole  Aided Vision: RE 6/60 LE 6/12  Outcome: Listed for Right Vitrectomy/ILM Peel/Gas 02/07/13 LA  WE have listed this lady for the aforementioned surgery in June and shall of course keep you informed of her progress.
This 6 year old boy attended the children's Accident and Emergency department today with a recent onset of visual disturbance in both nasal hemifields. His visual acuity is excellent, a Goldmann visual field test was normal, and on fundoscopy both optic nerve heads, maculae and peripheral retinae were healthy. On Ishihara testing he saw the control plate only, and I understand there is a strong maternal family history of colour vision defects.  I have reassured Finbar and his mother that his visual disturbance should resolve without any treatment. We will review him in a few weeks in the general paediatric eye clinic.
Thank you very much for referring this 59 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for rigtht phacoemulsification and IOL implantation and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis:Right Cataract  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 17/5/13   Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 1 week and then BD for 1 week and then OD for 1 week then stop.     VA:  Right:  6/18 ph:6/9-1 Left:   6/5-1 IOP: Right:    14    mm/Hg  Left:  16     mm/Hg            Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
This 56 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
This lady has bilateral cataracts and is keen for surgery. Her BP today was 147/102 and her ECG is enclosed. Our anaesthetist has requested her BP control be optimised prior to surgery. On receipt of written confirmation of this we can proceed with listing her for surgery. She is due to see you next week. Many thanks for your help in this matter.
Diagnosis: Left chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSR)  Visual acuity: left: 6/24 Unaided right: 6/5 Unaided  It was a pleasure to see this 34 year old man who attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic. He has been seen previously at the Lister Hospital in Stevenage with Left chronic CSR. His symptoms have been present for 1 year and do fluctuate.  Posterior segment: right: No abnormality. left: Subretinal fluid and RPE changes.  Investigation: Right OCT - normal. Left OCT - subretinal fluid  FFA - leakage point just above the left fovea but within 500 microns therefore high risk for thermal laser.  Clinical management: Seen with Mr #### Discussed plan as PDT laser treatment for chronic CSR is not funded by the NHS. We will review in 3 months with a repeat OCT.   In the mean time I will email the AMD Fellow (Ms Ugarte) regarding likelihood of approval of funding before considering referral to the PDT clinic for treatment without funding in place.
This 64 year old woman was reviewed in clinic today. The left eye is settling well following cataract surgery.  She has been prescribed Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification (LA) and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 74 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following .  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and Refraction 6/9 left.  She has been prescribed: She is on a reducing dose of topical medication.    She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
RVA 6/5 LVA 3/60 6/12PH  We have listed Mr ###### for a combined left cataract extraction/IOL and removal of oil under LA. We shall arrange prophylactic 360 degree laser retinopexy prior to his surgery. He is currently on no topical medication.
This 18 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Diagnosis: Vernal conjunctivitis RE > LE Pseudomembrane RE> LE Scarring of upper tarsoconjunctiva LE Giant papillae LE. Mechanical ptosis LE> RE Clear corneas. Acuity of 6/6 in each eye. Swabs for bacterial and chlamymidial organisms. Listed for tarsal steroid injections in Oct. He has been prescribed Olopatadine 1mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) for 1 month Ciclosporin 0.2% eye ointment, 1 strip bd Eye (Both) for 1 month Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) for 1 month.  Review in 3 wks.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Epiretinal Membrane Pseudophakia Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and evidence of photocoagulation)   Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 4 months
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right cataract surgery
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  His visual acuity was  right and  left. He is myopic  vitreous syneresis.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this pleasant 80 year  old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His VA: 6/24, 6/6 IOP: 24 & 14 mmHg Right cataract, left pseudophakia CCT: 556 & 564 um Small but healthy optic discs and full visual fields.  Impression: Right Ocular Hypertension No other risk factor found.  Plan: Mr ######## does not require treatment according to NICE guidelines. He got cataract in right eye but still has no symptoms.  But we will review him again in 6 months time.
Diagnosis:    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 3/60 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with . She does not need any injection today.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has bilateral cataracts. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for RE phaco+iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with  Lucentis. She does not need an injection in either eye today.  She will be reviewed in 5 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Diagnosis:    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/96 Unaided  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with Lucentis She does not need an injection in either eye today.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 72 year old woman whom I saw in the cataract clinic today.   Diagnosis bilateral cataracts  Px notices left vision is more blurry and this eye is more myopic therefore we have discussed the risks and benefits of cataract surgery and she is keen to go ahead.   List for left phaco and IOL so less anisometropia post surgery.
This 78 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 56 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit after RD repair on 17.10.12. He has been listed for right vitrectomy, right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 6 Dec 2012.
Diagnosis:  Right eye:  Mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NSC R1) Previous diabetic maculopathy treated with laser (NSC P)  Left eye:  Mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NSC R1) Previous diabetic maculopathy treated with laser (NSC P)  Type2 diabetes mellitus   Visual acuity: Right eye: 6/9 Left eye: 6/36    Comments: he has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised. Other points: Booked for LE IVTA on the 13th of November.   Yours sincerely
This 20 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: penetrating wound of orbit with foreign body  - Operation: right extraction of cataract lens, anterior vitrectomy, examination under anesthesia  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid both eyes for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly right eye for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid right eye for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 days then in 1 week.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old diabetic woman whom I saw in the clinic today.    - Diagnosis: Bilateral cataracts, Left > Right.   - Investigations: Vision was 6/18 Right, 6/36 Left. Eyes otherwise healthy. No retinopathy   - On-going Care Plan: Listed for Left then Right cataract surgery.
I saw this 65 year old man today following his  treatment for a left cataract.   The best corrected visual acuity was 6/6 on the right and 6/6 on the left.    Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.He is adviced to visit his optician for refraction.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him from the clinic.
This 55 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time in Mr #### clinic, and also tomorrow 8.30am VRE clinic.
This 65 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 59 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 52 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit after her recent Right cataract extraction and IOL implantation. I am pleased to report that the eye is settling well and the vision has improved. She is on a reducing dose of topical medication. She has been listed for Left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 10/5/13  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 1 week and then BD for 1 week and then OD for 1 week then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/12  ph:6/9  Left:  6/36 ph 6/13 IOP: Right:         16  mm/Hg Left:    14    mm/Hg            Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
This 59 year old woman attended the clinic after presenting to the MR clinic with a full thickness macular hole on the left side. Her VA is 6/60 at present.  We had a long discussion regarding the risks and benefits of surgery and the fact the hole is quite large and of unkown duration, making the prognosis guarded.  She has been listed for left vitrectomy, left internal limiting membrane peel and gas and will be admitted on 26 Jul 2013.   She also has a family history of glaucoma and has disc asymmetry (R 0/7, L0.4 cups). Her IOPs were normal at 19mmHg BE. I would be grateful if you could refer her to her local glaucoma clinic for an assessment.
This 81 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Right Ocular hypertension.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/5 in right eye; 6/12 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 20 mmHg in RE; 20 mmHg in LE.  Impression:Stable ocular hypertension  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is Combigan BD Both Eyes.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 6-9 months.
This gentleman has done very well following right cataract surgery and can now see unaided 6/6. His Left eye has a cataract too and he is aware of the contrast and colour differences. He would like this removed too and I have therefore listed him for Left Cataract extraction and lens impant (22 August 2013).
Thank you very much for referring this 53 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Visual acuity: left: 6/24 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole right: 6/6 Glasses, 6/5 Pinhole  Her principal diagnosis is left cataract.  She has been listed for left phacoemulcification with iol  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She is noticing a gradual deterioration to the vision in both eyes with particular difficulty reading and seeing detail on the TV. Visual acuity: left: 6/24 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole, 6/24+2 right: 6/24 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole She has mild bilateral cataract and significant bilateral dry AMD. Both optic discs are very pale, she has a history of anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. I will arrange for her to come and see Ms Minihan for an opinion as to whether cataract surgery is likely to give her any visual benefit.
This 68 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has bilateral cataracts, LE>RE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for LE phaco+iol on 23d of October and RE phaco+iol on 20th of November.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Visual acuity: left: 6/6 Pinhole, 6/6-2 right: 6/9 Unaided Se has a cataract in her RE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 30 Aug 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 85 year old woman whom I saw in the clini. Visual acuity: left: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole right: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole c today. She has noticed difficulty with her reading vision. Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 30 Aug 2013.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    (R3S and evidence of photocoagulation/M0 and evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:     (R3S and evidence of photocoagulation/M1S and evidence of photocoagulation)  Visual acuity: HM on the right and 6/60 on the left Laser management: Not Required   Comments: She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised. Other points: We will manage her conservatively given the level of macular ischemia in the left eye and ischemic CRVO in the RE. She is registered currently. She also requested to see the Low Vision Therapist and we have arranged this for her.   She will be reviewed in 4 weeks
Diagnosis: Primary Open Angle Glaucoma            Bilateral Pseudophakia  Visual Acuity: RE 6/18 - PH: 6/12, LE 6/12-2 - PH: 6/12  Treatment: G. Xalatan in BE OD            G. Azopt in BE BD            G. Ganfort in BE OD  Intraocular Pressure: RE 17mmHg, LE 24mmHg  Comments: I reviewed this 89 year old gentleman in Mr. ######### clinic today.  On examination, both eyes appear white with a deep quiet anterior chamber. On fundoscopy, the cup:disc in the right was 0.7 and in the left 0.85.  I have explained to Mr. ###### his left eye pressure is still too high. I have therefore, listed him for a left Baervelt tube to be inserted into his left eye.
Diagnosis: POAG, R cataract, L Phaco+IOL and Trabectome March 2013 VA's: R 6/6, L 6/4 IOP's R 21, L 17 mmHg Management: Continue g. Lumigan nocte, Booked for Right Phaco +IOL and Trabectome 11/11/13
Diagnosis: Right eye:    None(R3S and evidence of photocoagulation/M1S and evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:     None(R3A and evidence of photocoagulation/M1S and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: 6/36 on the right and 6/12 on the left Laser management: Performed today   Comments: He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  He will be reviewed in 3 months
This 45 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 76 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Left pseudophakia Right cataract  Booked for right cataract surgery on the 27th of November 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/36 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Clinically significant macular oedema(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:  No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC U and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Diabetes mellitus type 1  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Unaided Left Eye: 1/60 Unaided  She received her Lucentis injection to the right eye today. The number of injection is 14 on the right eye.  She is prescribed G.Exocin qds for 5 days. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 5 weeks.
This 80 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/60 right and 6/6 left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left cataract surgery under LA.
This 76 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/12-6/9 left.  He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:right phacoemulsification and intraocular lens insertion under local anaesthesia.
This patient was reviewed in the glaucoma clinic today.  Diagnosis: Open angle glaucoma right trabeculectomy 29.8.13 on list for left trabeculectomy  Visual acuity:  RE 6/9 LE 6/9  Intraocular pressure: RE14  LE22  Management: g. tiopex od left add g. latanoprost nocte left right g. dexamethasone pres free tds  Review: 1 month
This 74 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis RE Pseudophakia           LE Cataract Visual Acuity RE 6/6 LE 6/9 I reviewed Ms Pendreich in clinic. On examination the right eye seems to settle  well after her previous surgery and the post-op cystoid macular oedema  has completely resolved. We discussed benefits and risks of surgery, is keen to proceed and has been listed for left eye cataract extraction and lens implant.
Thank you very much for referring this 44 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in both eyes and should benefit from surgery. She is also a high myope.  Her visual acuity was 6/12 6/9PH right and  6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right cataract surgery under LA although they are going to confirm. Due to the high myopia she would be very anisometropic post surgery and therefore it be worth performing left catarct surgery shortly afterwoods.
This 79 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is Left aphakia, and right cataract. The eye has now settled, with a refracted best vision of 6/12 achievable in the left. Vision is 6/18 ph 6/9 right. I discussed refractive options with her today that included: contact lens wear, scleral haptic-fixated lens implantation, or Artisan iris-clip lens implantation. After consideration, the patient has opted for a secondary Artisan lens implant. Once the equipment booking arrangements are in place, I will provide a date for her surgery.
Diagnoses:  Cataracts Right branch retinal vein occlusion associated with macular oedema (presentation November 2012) (secondary to hypertension) Hypermetropia  Previous treatment to right eye: Dexamethasone implants (x3) (i.e. Ozurdex), February, June and October 2013  Visual acuity with correction: right eye 6/36 (pinhole 6/18), left eye 6/12 Intraocular pressures (mmHg): right eye 19, left eye 17  Reason for letter: booked for right phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant under topical anaesthesia as the day case tomorrow afternoon  We saw this 77-year-old patient in Mr. ##### clinic this afternoon. He was complaining of gradual reduction in his vision in the right eye. We consider this is due to his lens opacities and we have book an appointment for a cataract operation tomorrow. We are pleased to let you know that the steroid implants in his right eye have managed to treat his macular oedema. He did not have any signs of ocular neovascularisation.  Backup appointment in Mr. ##### medical retinal clinic: 4 months  We will keep you informed of his progress.
Thank you very much for referring this 69 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has a significant cataract in her left eye and has been listed for left cataract extraction and lens implant under general anaesthetic at City Road. She is aware of the risks and benefits. I note that she suffers from claustrophobia.
Diagnoses: Bilateral cataracts  VA R 6/12 ph L 6/12 ph  Thank you for referring this kind lady to our clinic. She has bilateral cataracts and is symptomatic from this. She reports trouble driving. She is keen for cataract surgery, left eye to be done first. I have listed her this at Northwick park.
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is both eyes cataract.   He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 4 Feb 2013.
Thanks for referring Mrs ######## to us with a history of a right cystic looking cyst over her right caruncle.  This has not bled or caused any discharges. She complains of stickiness in the morning.  The ophthalmic examination was unremarkable and she has no lymphadenopathy.  She has been listed for excision and biopsy with syringing and probing on the Minor Ops list.
Mrs ###### was referred to the Adnexal Service for a right sided ptosis.  She reports a 7 month history of this and denies any neurological symptoms.  On examination she had no fatigability and no relative afferent pupillary defect or any stabismus.  She has bilateral dermatochalasis and a right sided droopy lid with a Herring positive reflex.  The eyes were otherwise quiet and unremarkable and following a discussion of the risks and benefits, including the possibility of needing left sided correction afterwards, she has been listed for right ptosis repair and bilateral blepharoplasty under local anaesthetic.  This will be done at City Road.
I saw this lady in clinic today with a view to BE cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. She was listed for bilateral sequential phaco, RE first.
Diagnosis:  Cataracts right more than left VA: 6/18 both eyes  DRSS Grade:R1M0 both eyes  This gentlemans blood pressure was 161/86 today in clinic. I would be very grateful if he could be seen as soon as possible for this in your surgery. He is having trouble with blurred vision in both eyes and this is likley due to his cataracts. We have given him a date for right cataract surgery on the 16th of January 2013, and I would be grateful if you would ensure that his blood pressure is well controlled before then. He will get an appointment for pre assessment before January 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.  His visual acuity was 6/6 on the right and 6/12 on the left.His intraocular pressure was 21 in both eyes and I note that he has a history of ocular hypertension in his mother. He was found to have bilateral cataracts and has been listed for a left phaco/IOL under locals at Northwick Park Hospital.  We will perform visual field testing after his surgery.
Diagnosis:    Bilateral Pseudophakia  This lovely 60 year old woman attended the post-operative cataract clinic for a routine follow up visit today. Mrs ####### recently underwent successful cataract surgery in her right eye on the 20/11/2012. She has now had cataract surgery in both eyes and achieves excellent unaided vision of 6/9 in her right improving to 6/6 with pinhole eye and 6/5 in her left. Her right eye has settled well and there is no infection or inflammation present. Both eyes appear healthy and her eye examination today was unremarkable.  Mrs ####### requires spectacle for only close work and I have asked her to visit her own optometrist for an annual review. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her from our care but we are very happy to review her in the future is her situation changes.
Diagnosis: Primary Open Glaucoma  Best corrected Visual Acuity:Right 6/6  Left 6/5  Intra-Ocular Pressure: Right 29mmHg   Left:30mmHg  Current Ocular Medication: g. Xalatan to Both Eyes once a day at night  This charming 51 year old man attended the Glaucoma Clinic for a routine follow-up visit today. On assessment today he was found to have raised intra-ocular in both eyes. On visual field testing he was found to have an early inferior defect in the left eye. On assessment of the optic nerves the right nerve appears to have some early glaucomatous changing to the nerve tissue. In the left eye the changes to the nerve were more significant and Mr ######## was found to have thinning of the nerve tissue both superiorly and infeior. He also has a family history, as his mother suffers with glaucoma.  I have therefore started him on the ocular medication stated above and would be very grateful if you could please continue this on repeat presecription until further notice. He will be seen again in the clinic in 2 months.
I saw this lady in clinic today who recently underwent RE cataract surgery. The postoperateive course was satisfactory, and I advised her to reduce the topical steroids to twice daily for the rest of the treatment period.  She also reported LE floaters. On fundoscopy, no peripheral lesions predisposing to retinal detachment were observed. She has been advised to be seen again as emergency in case of any further visual abnormalities.  She presented witha significant LE cataract, and I listed her for surgery after discussing the risks/benefit of the procedure.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract. The best corrected visual acuity was 6/9 on the right and 6/9 on the left.   The benefits and risks of surgery were fully discussed, but as she is manageing well with very good vision ,no treatment is needed at this moment. Please re-refer her if the symptoms change.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her.
Thank you very much for referring this 94 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis RE pseudophakia           LE Cataract  Visual acuity RE 6/12 LE 6/24  I reviewed Ms Strong in clinic. On examination there is dense nuclear sclerotic cataract in the left eye. She has been listed for cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthetic.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 19 Jul 2013.
Diagnosis: Left Pseudophakia  Visual Acuity: RE 6/9-1, LE 6/9  Comments: I reviewed this 63 year old gentleman in Primary Care. He is very pleased with his vision in his left eye since having his operation.  On examination, both eyes appear white with a clear cornea. The left eye had occasional cells in the anterior chamber. Fundoscopy was unremarkable.  I have explained to Mr. ###### we are happy with his left eye surgical results. I have asked him to reduce his Maxidex drops by 1 drop per week. I have listed him for his right cataracts to be removed on Sept 10 2013.
Diagnosis: Bilateral symptomatic cataracts  Visual acuity: Right 6/9, Left 6/6  Thank you very much for referring this 82 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Despite her measured vision above she is very symptomatic visually due to cataracts and has difficulty driving.  We discussed the benefits and risks of cataract surgery and she is keen to proceed. She has been listed for day case cataract surgery to be performed on 2nd September 2013 (right eye) and 23rd September 2013 (left eye).
DIAGNOSIS: Pathological myopia            Right amblyopia            R>L cataract  VAR 6/36 ph 6/18  L 6/24 ph 6/9  It was a pleasure to review this lovely lady in the Medical Retina clinic. She is becoming more symptomatic especially in her right eye from her cataracts. Clinically, she has nuclear and posterior subcapsular cataract in her right eye and a predominantly nuclear cataract in her left eye. She has a myopic fundus but no evidence of bleeding or fluid.  I have waitlisted her for right cataract surgery under local anaesthesia. I have warned her of the risk of retinal detachment, infection, bleeding and the fact that her prognosis is guarded due to right amblyopia. She is keen to procede and has been given a date for 10/9/13.
This 70 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (Right rapid progression with relative afferent pupil defect)  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/9 in right eye; 6/12 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 22 in RE; 24 in LE. He is currently on iopidine which is causing him severe irritation and needs to be stopped immediately. He is also on diamox Slow Release 250mg twice a day orally, which must be continued. We have also added Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) for 1 month.   He has been listed for a right trabeculectomy with mitomycin C as a local anaesthetic day case.
This 90 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: 1)Bilateral Primary open angle glaucoma 2)Bilateral Pseudophakia  Intraocular pressures are rather unsatisfactory, i.e.18 each eye. Visual fields seem to have deteriorated, although very unreliable.  I have therefore stopped the G. Xalatan and changed to G. Ganfort od mane both eyes.  We will see her again in 3 months time.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and HM left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for LEFT cataract surgery.
I saw this lady in the clinic today.  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL RE is settling very well after the operation. She also has significant cataract in her LE and she is keen to have the operation in December if possible. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged in December.
Diagnosis	Advance open angle glaucoma 		Right central retinal vein occlusion 2005 		Left upper lid ptosis  Treatment	Continue Bimatoprost / timolol 0.5% mane both eyes 		         Dorzolamide bd both eyes 	  		 Brimonidine bd left eye  Vision		RVA  PL    LVA  6/9  Mr ########## visual field defect in the left eye is progressing. He has also noticed that the vision in the left eye is getting worse. I have provided him with an information booklet on trabeculectomy surgery and have placed him on the waiting list for left eye trabeculectomy with MMC under local aneasthesia with an overnight stay.
This 65 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/36 left.    He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   She has significant cataract in her RE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 23 Aug 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 91 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and advanced Age related macular degeneration with RPE atrophy in both eyes.    Her visual acuity was CF right and CF left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left phacoemulcification with IOL under guarded visual prognosis.
This 68 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 6 hourly Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Primary Open Angle Glaucoma            Left Pseudophakia            Left YAG Capsulotomy  Visual Acuity: RE 6/9, LE 6/9+1 - PH: 6/5-2  Treatment: G. Timoptol in BE BD            G. Xalatan in BE OD  CHANGE IN TREATMENT: G. Xalatan in BE OD  Intraocular Pressure: BE 18mmHg  CCT: RE 510, LE 534  Comments: I reviewed this 74 year old gentleman in Mr. ######### clinic today. He would like to have his right cataract removed and he finds his right eye to be very blurry and he can no longer read his newspapers.  On examination, both eyes appear white with a clear cornea and deep anterior chambers. The right eye had a cataract present while the left had an IOL. On fundoscopy, the cup:disc was 0.7 in the right eye and 0.8 in the left eye.  I have explained to Mr. ###### his eyes remain stable. I have asked him to STOP using his Timoptol as it is likely we are over treating his intraocular pressures. He is to continue using his Xalatan. In addition, I have listed him for his right cataracts to be removed on the 15/10/2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left Cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 19/8/13   Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 5 days and then BD for 5 days and then OD for 5 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/4-2          Left:   6/9-2 ph: 6/9 IOP: Right:       16     mm/Hg Left:  16    mm/Hg            Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 94 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and CF left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:left phacoemulcification  with iol .
This 76 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 49 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Removal of gas  - Prescription: Acetazolamide 250mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) bd PO for 5 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 1 month Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  REVIEW TOMORROW AM - MACKELLAR WARD AT 08.00
This 51 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right retinal GIANT "u" tear  - Operation: Right Cryotherapy retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  Discharge without same day post-operative review. Review in ONE WEEK IN JIM BAINBRIDGE CLINIC.
This 48 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Iopidine LE TDS for 4 weeks  Discharge without same day post-operative review. FOLLOW UP TOMORROW AT 8 am Sedwick Ward. POSTURING - FACE DOWN UNTIL TOMORROW -  THEN FOR 1 WEEK RIGHT CHEEK TO PILLOW 50 MINS EVERY HOUR FOR 1 WEEK.
This 89 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis:R cataract           L Pseudophakia           B AMD  We have listed her for R Phaco/IOl under guarded prognosis.
I saw this 67 year old woman today following her recent treatment for a right cataract. Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.  I think she would benefit from left cataract surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol. 
This 89 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   She underwent cataract surgery in her left eye and has a satisfactory outcome  She has cataract in her right eye and she is keen to have the surgery done. Therefore, She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 90 year old woman underwent left cataract extraction and lens implant on 5th November 2012. She has achieved a good result. She has a symptomatic right cataract. Her visual acuity is right 6/24unaided and 6/18 with pinhole and left 6/12-3 unaided. She will taper her post-op drop g. Maxidex 3/day for 2 weeks only to the left eye. I have listed jer for right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthetic, she is aware of the risks and benefits.
Diagnosis: Severe Diabetic Retinopathy Blind Left Eye Right Fibrovascular Traction and Preretinal/Vitreous Haemorrahge Dense Right Cataract  Unaided Vision: RE 1/60 LE NPL  Outcome: Listed for Right Cataract Surgery   This pleasant gentleman attended clinic after a recent drop in his vision in his only right eye. Examination revealed a dense right cataract and right fibrovascular retinal traction and haemorrahge. We discussed various management options including the implications of not intervening, the risks involved in a delamination procedure as well as a catract operation given this is his only eye. After discussion it was felt best to proceed with the right cataract in the first instance and review with the situation, with a delamination more than likley in the future to prevent further visual loss. As such we have listed Mr ####### for the procedure above on the 18th Jan 2013 and shall of course keep you informed of his progress.
Diagnosis: Left lower lid post operative granuloma.  2.  Left lateral lower lid laxity.   I reviewed this pleasant 25 year old gentleman who was assaulted in August, 2012 in Portugal whilst on holiday and sustained a left orbital floor fracture which was repaired by the local maxfax team with a titanium mesh.  He unfortunately developed a wound site granuloma roughly ten days after the removal of sutures back in the UK which has been weeping and discharging causing the patient significant discomfort.    On examination there was a full range of ocular movements with normal colour vision and pupil responses and there appears to be a predunculated granuloma in the left lower lid measuring  10.1 x 7.5mm with no associated lagophthalmos and normal fundal examination.  Plan: In view of these findings we have put the patient on the waiting list for left lower lid tightening and excision of the granuloma on 21st December 2012.  He has been put on regular lubricants and Chloramphenicol ointment at night.   Kind regards.
Diagnosis Bilateral pterygium R>L Bilateral pseudophakia  This 68 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. He continues to have blurred vision in the right eye. Refraction showed some astigmatism which may improve if the pterygium is removed. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him, along with the 10% risk of recurrence. He has been listed for right pterygium excision and conjunctival autograft in March 2013 under LA.
Mr ####### attended the corneal clinic today for a review. Diagnosis: Bil Conjunctival chalazis Blepharitis  He is still symptomatic despite proper blepharitis treatment. We are planning to remove the redundant conjunctiva of his right eye to improve his symptoms. He will be booked for the procedure in the near future.
Diagnosis: Right aphakic (managed with CL) Left cataract Mild non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy Early right aphakic bullous keratopathy Possible right aphakic glaucoma  Vision: RE 6/6 with CL, LE 6/12  This gentleman has early corneal decompensation in the right eye due to aphakia. AS he has normal vision with a contact lens, this requires no treatment at this stage. If it does progress to involve his central cornea, he may require a corneal transplant.  Mr ##### also has a left cataract, and after the discussion of risks and benefits, has been placed on the waiting list for left cataract surgery in February.  Finally, the intraocular pressure was also noted to be elevated in the right eye today; 29mmHg in the RE and 17mmHg in the LE. He appears to have some changes of glaucomatous optic nerve damage, but his requires review by the Glaucoma team at Moorfields. Could you kindly refer him to the Glaucoma Service for an appointment within 3 months?
NEW PATIENT  This patient was reviewed in clinic today and the current situation is summarised below:  Plan:  This patient has been listed for right phakoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation under local anaesthetic as a day case at Mile End on the 20 February 2013.
This 72 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Her principal diagnosis was a Right eye non ischaemic hemispheric branch vein occlusion. This has resolved leaving a few small collateral vessels at the optic disc.  She requires no treatment at the present time.   No further routine follow up is required, and I have discharged her. We will be happy to review her should she develop further problems.
This patient was reviewed in clinic and the current situation is summarised below :-  Diagonsis:  Post right cataract surgery   Visual acuity : 6/9  Plan  This patient has been listed for left phakoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation under local anaesthetic as a day case at Mile End on the 20 February 2013.
Diagnosis: 1 Left Pseudophakic Total PVR RD with a Full Thickness Macular Hole  2 Previous Left Cataract Extraction - Morocco 3 Left YAG Capsulotomy - Gibraltar 4 Right Cataract 5 Right AMD Changes 5 Left Lower Lid BCC   Aided Vision: RE 6/60 (6/36) LE HM    Outcome: Listed for Left RD Repair (Vitrectomy/Peel/ILM Peel/360 Laser/Oil - gaurded Prognosis 15/01/13 DC LA  Many thanks for referring this very pleasant gentleman who reports a 2 week history of reduced vision in his left eye. Examination revealed a left total retinal detachment with evidence of grade C PVR scarring of the retina. No break was identified however there was a full thickness macular hole noted. The gentleman will require complex detachment surgery and we have informed him of the risks and benefits as well as the very gaurded prognosis given the nature of the detachment. The surgrey will require the use of silicone oil which while in situ will leave him with reduced vision and he has been made aware that there is the real possibility of the oil being left in the eye long term. We have also explained that although the prognosis is very gaurded, if he opted for no intervention then this will result in the complete loss of sight in the left eye. He is keen to proceed and so we have listed him for surgery for Tuesday 15/01/13.  Examination also revealed a left lower lid BCC and we would be grateful if you could arrange for him to have this treated locally in Gibraltar.
I would be grateful if this patient ould be seen in your clinic.  Background: Bilateral Retinal peripapillar Colobomas              Bilateral Aphakia after congenital cataracts surgery in Russia as a baby              Nystagmus              Esotropia              Bilateral peripheral corneal oedema (Brown-McLean Syndrome)  She was referred to us for the corneal oedema.  We are planning stromal puncture in the left eye. IOPs today were 30 mmHg R and 21 mmHg L.  CD ratios were 0.4 right and 0.9 left.  She tells me that, as far as she is aware, IOPs have never been raised in the past.  I have prescribed g latanoprost od in the right eye and will ask her GP to continue prescribing this until she see you.
The above patient is booked to have a Left Retinal Detachment surgery (vitrectomy, peel, cryotherapy retinopexy, laser retinopexy, injection of silicone oil) under LA. He presented to the pre-operative asessment clinic with a blood pressure of 240/110 mmHg and pulse rate of 101/min. It was re-checked after 20 minutes and it went down to 190/100 mmHg.   The patient is not symptomatic except for occassional headaches and the only medication he takes are paracetamol. His /interpreter/friend attributes the high BP to nervousness and for fasting the whole morning for some reason.  He is adviced to see his GP as soon as he possibly can for some urgent blood pressure monitoring and treatment to prevent cancellation on day of operation.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  Diagnosis: Right cataract                Left pseudophakia                Left posterior capsular opacification  We performed a LE Yag laser capsulotomy today. He has been prescribed Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 7 days. His principal diagnosis is right cataract.  I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. We fully discussed the postoperative refractive outcome and that the eye measuremenst may be not be so accurate due to previous refractive surgery. He has been listed for right cataract surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 82 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: pseudoexfoliation of lens capsule  - Operation: left phacoemulsification of cataract with intraocular lens implantation  No GP action is required. She is on a reducing dose of topical medication. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her.
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis RE > LE Cataract  Visual Acuity RE 6/12 LE 6/9  I reviewed Ms Onida in the clinic. Anterior segment examination showed moderate nuclear sclerotic cataracts. Posterior segment examination found within normal limits.  Ms Onida will be listed for right phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation.
Thank you for referring this gentleman who has a history of left uveitis and retinal detachment. He underwent vitrectomy in July 2009 and his IOP control has been difficult since.            . There is no  family history of glaucoma. The patient  is  a driver and is retired.  On examination the visual acuity is 6/24     right and CF       left. The iridocorneal angles were wide open on the right but  closed with PAS on the left  The intraocular pressures were 20   mmHg right and   44          left. The crystalline lens was normal on the right with left pseudophakia. Optic discs was  normal on the right, but markedly pale and cupped on the left.     There is evidence of advanced glaucoma on the left and I have suggested he continue his current medication of cosopt bd, iopdine bd and lotemax qds, and have listed him for a cyclodiode procedure.  The right vision is restricted by epiretinal membrane and macular oedema and I will ask our VR team at Moorfields St George's for their input.  Thank you for the referral.
Thank you very much for referring this 54 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis: Right symptomatic posterior subcapsular cataract Left pseudophakia   RVA 6/12  LVA 6/5  Management: Risks and benefits of Right cataract surgery explained   Listed for Right cataract surgery and implant under LA
This 56 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis: B/L Pseudophakia Dry eyes related to Rheumatoid arthritis Myopia B/L posterior vitreous detachments  RVA 6/6  LVA 6/6  Management: Satisfactory post operative outcome  Wean off Maxidex drops then stop.  To see Opticians for up to date refraction   To attend A&E if she develops any increasing floaters or flashing lights.  Reassured and discharged.
This 83 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Bilateral cataracts  Vision: RE 6/12; LE 6/24  Listed for left cataract surgery under local anaesthetic.
Diagnosis:L Cataract           R Pseudophakia  We have listed her for L Phaco/IOL under LA
This 74 year old woman was seen in hospital today.   - Diagnosis: pseudophakia BE Posterior capsule opacification LE  - Operation: right phacoemulsification of cataract with intraocular lens implantation   - Prescription:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 week  She will be given an appointment for left YAG capsulotomy  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
DIAGNOSIS:  Age related macula degeneration -left wet age-related macular degeneration: left Lucentis x 3 (last July 2011) -right subretinal fluid with no definite choroidal neovascular membrane on fluorescein angiography  Cataracts  VAR 6/18 ph 6/12 VAL 6/18 ph 6/12  I reviewed this lovely lady in the Medical Retina clinic. We are following her up for her macula degeneration and I am pleased to report the situation is currently stable. Clinically she has dry changes in both eyes with no evidence of haemorrhage or subretinal fluid in either eye. This was confirmed on OCT.  We discussed going ahead with the cataract surgery and she is keen to do this. I have arranged her right eye to be done on August 6th 2013. She is aware the visual prognosis is guarded given the macula changes. We will see her following her surgery.
bilateral panuveitis bilateral cataracts He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and will be admitted on 23 Aug 2013.
Diagnosis:    Right anterior uveitis  Right cataract  Steroid responder    Visual acuity: right eye 6/12, left eye 6/5    Medication to right eye: NIL   Review in uveitis clinic: 4 months, SOONER IF WORSE.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Visual acuity: left: 6/12 Glasses right: 6/9 Glasses  Her principal diagnosis is left cataract. She had successful right cataract surgery last year.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted in the near future to St Ann's for the procedure.
This 19 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Scleral buckle  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: 1. Cataracts 2. Pigmented conjunctival lesions longstanding (?naevi/ melanosis)  Visual acuity: 6/12 both eyes  Comment: Listed for left cataract surgery under topical anaesthesia. Risks (including 1 in 1000 chance of vision loss) and benefits explained. Patient happy to proceed.
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: central corneal ulcer  - Operation: Left Tarsorrhaphy - temporary  - Prescription: Continue with treatment prescribed by cornea specialists  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time in ADCRV1.
This 73 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.  - Diagnosis: cataract  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time. She has been given a date for her 2nd eye op on Tuesday 8th October.
This 46 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 95 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.   She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right  phakoemulsification and iol.
This 77 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days.  She has cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. She has significant anisometropia and she is struggling to read.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol. I have requested for this to be done as soon as possible as the patient has anisometropia.
Diagnosis: Bilateral treated age-related macular degeneration not diabetic  Visual acuity: 2/60 on the right and 6/24 on the left   She will be reviewed in 4 months.  Low visual aid clinic appointment arranged and registration as severely visually impaired.
This 56 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is: 1. Bilateral Ocular Hypertension 2. Bilateral Pseudophakia  On her previous visit, in August 2013, the intraocular pressures were 30 right and 31 left eye. Moreover the left optic disc showed some thinning of the inferior temporal rim, with a suspicion of early nasal step on the visual fields.  It was decided to commence treatment and G. Latanoprost nocte to both eyes was prescribed. Today the pressures have dropped to 18 right and 20 left eye.  We will see her in 4 months time and she has been advised to continue with the drops on a regular basis.
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
I reviewed Mrs #### today following her surgery for a full thickness macular hole in the left eye.  As expected she has developed a cataract in her left eye and is keen to proceed with cataract surgery.  I have arranged for her to undergo a left phaco and IOL insertion under local anaesthetic on the 21st September 2012.
Thank you very much for referring this 26 year old woman who I saw in the clinic today.  She has a history of congenital cataracts which were removed as a child.  The right vision deteriorated to light perception about 4 years ago and was investigated extensively in our neurophthalmology clinic but no cause was found.  The left vision remains 6/24 with her aphakic glasses.  She is keen to have a left intraocular lens inserted and, after discussing the risks and benefits, we have decided to proceed with this. 
Diagnosis:  Cataract Left vitrectomy/ laser/ gas (18/07/2012) for giant retinal tear detachment Left vitrectomy/ peel /oil (21/08/2012) Right amblyopia   Visual acuity: Right 6/60 (ph6/12) Left 6/60  Medications prescribed: dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 14 days  On-going Care Plan For Left cataract extraction and intracoular lens implant + Removal of silicone oil under local anaesthesia 
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old woman who I saw in the clinic today. Her principal diagnosis is nuclear cataract in both eyes. I think she would benefit from surgery ( Lt. phacoemulsifiction then Rt. eye) and I explained the risks and benefits to her.  
This 36 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is retinitis pigmentosa with bilateral cataract.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL and will be admitted on 12 Oct 2012. 
This 84 year old lady attended the Cataract Clinic for her post-operative visit today.  The operated eye is settling down well and the vision has improved. We have asked the patient to tail off  her topical medications. G Dexamethasome 0.1% tds 2/52 then G Dexamethasome 0.1% bd 2/52 then G Dexamethasome 0.1% od 2/52 then stop  There is significant cataract in the fellow eye and we have discussed the risks and benefits of surgery to the RE. She has been listed for RE surgery in the near future. 
I saw this 70 year old man today following his recent treatment for a left cataract.  The operated eye is settling down well following the procedure. We have removed one suture from LE. He has been prescribed chlorAMPhenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 3 days.   His principal diagnosis is right cataract.   I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol. 
Thank you very much for referring this 48 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has a history of retinitis pigmentosa and a 2 year history of progressive central fogginess.  Her visual acuity is 6/12 on the right and 6/60 on the left and the intraocular pressure is normal. She has a central cataract on the right and early changes on the left and changes in the fundi consistent with RP.  I have listed her for a right phacoemulsification /IOL at Moorfields Eye Hospital under local with sedation.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/12 RE, 6/18 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for left cataract surgery in the first instance, right eye to follow.
I reviewed this pleasant forty-year old gentleman in the Lacrimal Clinic today.  He complains of a one-year history of right-sided epiphora with associated medial tearing and no other ocular symptoms or discharge from the eye.    He has no relevant past medical history in terms of sinus issues or atopy and is otherwise fit and well.  There is no other previous ophthalmic history.  On examination there is a slightly raised tear film in the right in comparison to the left and again a slight delay in the fluorescein disappearance test in the right compared to the left, but he otherwise has a normal examination bilaterally on the slit lamp.  Upon syringing however he does have moderate reflux, in the right more so than the left, however he assures me that he is completely asymptomatic in the left eye.  On further discussing the risks and benefits of surgery, comparing external and endo-nasal DCR, he has wisely opted to proceed with external DCR and we have put him on the list for right DCR on 5 October 2012.         With kind regards.
This 63 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 32 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis   RE Cataract  RVA CF ph 6/24 LVA 6/5  He has been listed for right cataract surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 47 year old woman attended the clinic following right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthetic on 22/10/12.  Diagnoisis: Bilateral advanced keratoconus, right pseudophake, left cataract.   She has achieved a subjective improvement in her navigational vision.Visual acuity right perception of light in both eyes. She is keen on cataract surgery to her right eye and has been placed on the waiting list for City Raod, Moorfields under local anaesthetic. She will taper g. Maxidex BD RE 1/52.
This 63 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today referred from our Primary Care Clinic following a presentation to our casualty department with reduction in peripheral vision in the right on 16th September 2012.  Diagnosis  RE ECCE and aphakia  LE phaco + IOL (1999)  RE Anterior vitrectomy and secondary IOL implant into sulcus (2000)  RE Inferiorly dislocated sulcus IOL  RVA unaided 6/60 BCVA 6/18 ph 6/9 LVA 6/9 unaided BCVA 6/6  This man is keen on improving his unaided vision in the right eye. He is not keen on wearing contact lenses. He has good visual potential in the right eye. He has been listed for right exchange of intraocular lens and anterior vitrectomy followed by insertion of anterior chamber intraocular lens under local anaesthetic. He is aware of the risks and benefits of surgery. I noted that he is on warfarin for a DVT, and his current INR runs at around 2.3 which is acceptable for this surgery. He has been advised to bring his anticoagulation booklet with him to pre-assessment clinic.
This 59 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Her principal diagnosis is left epiretinal membrane. She has developed some cataract in the left eye and She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 4 Jan 2013.
This 65 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: corneal decompensation  - Operation: right Descemet's stripping endothelial keratoplasty (posterior corneal transplant)   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Topical for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Topical for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 days time.
This 72 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   He underwent cataract surgery in his left eye and his vision has improved  Diagnosis  RE Cataract  LE Pseudophakia  RVA 6/36 ph 6/24 LVA 6/6  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 8 Apr 2013.
This 71 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: nuclear cataract Right eye  - Operation: left phacoemulsification of cataract with intraocular lens implantation  Eye settling down well.Listed for second [right] eye.
This 52 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis:   - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 10 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 19 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left laser retinal adhesion formation left injection of silicone oil into vitreous   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  Anterior segment examination showed  cornea endothelial haze,guttata, nuclear cataract on the right and cornea endothelial haze, guttata,on the left.  His principal diagnosis is right cataract.  I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 22 Apr 2013.
I saw this 74 year old man today following his recent treatment for a left cataract. Everything is stable and he has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 1 Mar 2013.
This 82 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. His principal diagnosis is Right adult Coats disease.  Visual acuity:  right 6/36 pinhole 6/24,  left 6/9  pinhole 6/6  Today the visual acuity has got worse in the right eye. Fundus examination and OCT showed increased in intraretinal fluid and ffA showed some leakage inferonasally to the disc that we are going to treat with some more laser today.  Also we are going to book him for an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone in a couple of weeks to reabsorb the fluid quicker.  His next appointment will be in 6 weels time.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is left cataract.   I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 30 Jan 2013.
This young patient has advanced keratoconus and has run into major problems with her visual acuity on account of the refractive consequences of this shape disorder of the cornea.  At present in the right eye, he has very poor spectacle corrected visual acuity and awaits a contact lens for better vision.  This lens was ordered more than 2 months ago and is still not available for wear causing major hold ups with his work at school.  The additional problem is that he has very poor visual potential at present in the left eye with scarring itself secondary to rupture of his membrane of the cornea.  Surgery to replace the cornea with a left transplant has been scheduled for 25th March and the visual rehabilitation following the surgery may well take several months.  We will try to arrange dispensing of the contact lenses as quickly as possible.  I would support Ssyful-Islam's request for special allowances to be made in regard to his examinations at school.  He has had major visual difficulties during the past school year and I would be happy to provide any further medical information that may be required by the school to support any request by his parents.
Thank you very much for referring this 24 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. As you know she has had Type I DM for 21 years and has recently precipitated very severe bilateral proleferative diabetic retinopathy.  The right vision is 6/24 while the left is 1/60.  Both eyes are very active. The right is undergoing retinal laser under your care.  The left has severe traction detachment and hemorrhage both sub-hyaloid and intravitreal.  She has extensve active neovascularization.  I am planning a left delamination vitrectomy and laser on the 5th February and will give her avastin a week before this.  I will let you know of her progress.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts, RE>LE  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/36 RE, 6/6 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for right cataract surgery in the first instance.
This 80 year old woman attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic.   Diagnosis: Left eye hyphaema with painful secondary glaucoma due to high intraocular pressure  Previous total left retinal detachment Bilateral pseudophakia Diabetes Mellitus  RVA 6/18  LVA NPL  The left eye is more comfortable on the treatment given at A&E.  She has been listed for left laser coagulation ciliary body and will be admitted on 24 Jan 2013.   In the mean time she should continue on: Acetazolamide 250mg modified release capsules, 1 capsule(s) bd PO for 10 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 14 days Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 1 month Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month Bimatoprost 0.3mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Left) for 1 month.
This 70 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit after Right eye cataract surgery on 29th January.All is well and vision is 6/6 unaided.   Her Left eye is amblyopic but also myopic with nuclear cataract. As such, we will get on and do Left eye cataract surgery soon with a view to improving the unaided vision in that eye, at least to some degree.
Diagnoses: Fuchs endothelial dystrophy Bilateral pseudophakia, bilateral yag capsulotomies Left DSAEK 15/2/13 ?R amblyopia  Vision: R 6/36 (PH 6/24) L 6/24 (PH 6/18)  We would be grateful if you could review this patient in approximately 6 weeks time. She was originally referred to us from your care with decompensated corneas. She is doing very well 1 week post left graft and we are planning a right DSAEK on the 12th July. To save her the long journey we would appreciate it if you could review in your clinic in the meantime. We plan to next see on the day of her right surgery. We have recommended g Maxidex qds for 6 months LE, to then drop to FML od.   Many thanks
This 84 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 25 Mar 2013.
Diagnosis: Advanced primary congenital glaucoma  VA: Right HM    Left 0.92  IOP: over 30 mmHg each Eye  Treatment: Continue G. Cosopt bd BE G. Iopidine bd BE G. Lumigan bd BE Add Acetazolamide SR 250mg bd PO Stop G. FML and try G. Acular bd BE  F/U: 3 months Patient has also provisionally been listed for left Baerveldt tube insertion if needed on 17th May, 2013.
Mr ######## was seen in the Glaucoma Clinic today.   He was referred for assessment of his optic discs and suspicion of glaucoma.  On examination today;  His visual acuity was RE: 6/24 PH 6/18 LE6/18 PH 6/12 His intraoccular pressures were RE: 14mmHg LE: 18mmHg  His angle did not appear occludable on gonioscopy.  After discussion Mr ######## is keen to proceed with cataract surgery and we have listed him for Left Eye cataract surgery.  He will be contacted by the admission team in due course and we will monitor for any changes that are suggestive of glaucoma.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 19 Jun 2013. I have outlined the nature of the surgery, including loss of vision and the possible requirement of a second operation on that eye,to the patient.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has visually significant cataract L>R and surgery is appropriate. She is a high myope and understands the increased risks of retinal problems after the surgery. She will have L phaco/IOL on 12th August and R phaco/IOL on 2nd September, to minimise the duration of anisometropia.
I had the pleasure of seeing this 82 years old lady in Cataract Clinic today. her corrected visual acuity is 6/12 in both eyes I understud that she is happy wih her vision and can manage well with her daily activity. After a discussion about risks and benefits of cataract surgery she prefers to wait.I prescribed: Oc Chloramphenicol ointment nocte in both eyes for 1 months and lid margin hygiene for her blepharitis. I have discharged her from this Cllinic but please refer her back if any problem
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis Cataract Visual Acuity RE 6/24 LE 6/24  I reviewed Mr ####### in clinic today. Anterior segment examination showed moderate cataract bilaterally. Posterior segment examination found within normal limits. He will be listed for left phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation under local anaesthetic.
This 73 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit after right cataract surgery. Her eye is settling well. The visual acuity was 6/6 on the right and 6/6 on the left. Her principal diagnosis is eye lid miebomian gland dysfunction. She was advised to do lid hygiene on daily basis and she was prescriped G.Celluvisc TDS 2/52 then prn for both eyes. She has mild nuclear cataract in the left eye but she decided against having cataract surgery in the left eye at the present time. She should visit her optician in the near future for a refraction. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. The best corrected visual acuity was 6/9 on the right and 6/9 on the left. Her principal diagnosis is left cataract. I think she would benefit from left cataract surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.
Diagnosis: Cataract Myasthenia gravis under control with medication  Vision:  R 2/60 (PH 6/24) L 6/24 (PH 6/18)  Thank you for referring this gentleman to clinic. He has significant cataract in both eyes and we will proceed with right cataract surgery first on the 26th June.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.    I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 5 Aug 2013.
This 22 year old man was discharged from hospital today.  Diagnosis: laceration of eye region Operation: left repair of eyelid laceration Prescription: Co-amoxiclav 625mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) tid PO for 7 days Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in a weeks time.
- Diagnosis: 	Right Pseudophakia 		Left bullous keratopathy and pseudophakia  - Investigations:   - Medications prescribed: Left eye 	G Celluvisc 1% tds  					G N Saline Preservative free prn   - On-going Care Plan: Review 6/52  - GP Action: Please prescribe further eyedrops  - Patient advice: Change bandage lens monthly
Left vitreous haemorrhage with probable retinal detachment.  For left vitrectomy.  RVA 6/60. LVA PL.
- Diagnosis: Bilateral mechanical ptosis caused by dermatochalasis.  - Investigations: Visual fields show superior field defect in both eyes due to the mechanical ptosis   - On-going Care Plan: Listed for bilateral upper lid blepharoplasty to br done on 30/10/12.   - GP Action: Please ensure Mr. ##### stops Aspirin 2 weeks prior to surgery.  - Patient advice: Mr. ##### to stop using Aspirin 2 weeks prior to surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 86 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has bilateral cataracts and is symptomatic in both but only wants surgery to her right eye. This is her worse eye due to glaucoma. She underwent a right trabeculectomy in 2005 and now uses glaucoma drops only in the left eye. I have listed her for right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthetic and she will employ daily hot compress and lid hygiene for blepharitis.
This 79 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  His principal diagnosis is Right cataract.  I think he would benefit from surgery (Right phacoemulsification) and I explained the risks and benefits to him.
Diagnosis: Stargardt inherited macular dystrophy  Vision: R 1.20logMAR; L 1.00logMAR  Status: stable  Follow-up: 1 year jointly with Low Visual Aid clinic
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is right cataract. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 18 Mar 2013.
This 28 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks timein VR PS OPD.  to be reviewed tomorrow morning annd needs to posture face down for 4 hours now and then upright for 5 days.
Diagnosis: Bilateral quiescent treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy (P)            Bilateral treated ischaemic diabetic maculopathy (P)            Right insignificant lens opacity.            Left Pseudophakia    On review today, Mr ######## remains clinically stable. No intervention was indicated.  Review 1 year
This patient was seen in clinic and the current situation is summarised below:  Diagnosis:          Post operative left cataract surgery  Visual Acuity:      Left eye 6/9  Clinical Status:    Quiet  Cataract surgery is indicated in the fellow eye and the following admission arrangements have been made:                             Date of procedure:               14.12.12                            Anaesthetic:                     Local                            Hospital Site:                   City Road                            Admission category:              Day Case  Follow up appointment has been arranged for the Monday cataract clinic for clinical assessment at Mile End Hospital at three weeks.  At the time of discharge spectacles will have been dispensed if appropriate.          .
This patient was seen in clinic and the current situation is summarised below:  Diagnosis:           Post operative right cataract surgery  Visual Acuity:       Right eye 6/6           Cataract surgery is indicated in the fellow eye and the following admission arrangements have been made:                             Date of procedure:               21 December 2012                            Anaesthetic:                     Local                            Hospital Site:                   City Road                            Admission category:              Day Case  Follow up appointment has been arranged for the Monday cataract clinic for clinical assessment at Mile End Hospital at three weeks.  At the time of discharge spectacles will have been dispensed if appropriate.
This 70 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right laser retinal adhesion formation right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 72 year old man attended the Glaucoma clinic for a follow up visit.   He had left phaco with IOL in October with ntravitreal Triamicinolone as advised by you. He is happy with the outcome. His pressures are ok with healthy discs. Today we have booked him for Right catarct surgery with guarded prognosis. He is going to see you on 28th December, so plaese let us know about any contraindication/advice for IV triamicinolone for right phaco.
Thank you very much for referring this 72 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and IOL and will be admitted on 1 Mar 2013.
This 55 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 14 days Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Congenital Idiopathic Nystagmus (CIN) Left convergent squint Slight abnormal head posture (AHP) Left amblyopia  VA (with AHP): Right 0.10   Left 0.48  No iris transillumination Fundoscopy: unremarkable Normal fields to confrontation No dark vision symptoms  Comment: Katie and her mother's main concern is her left convergent squint. We have offered surgical correction of this squint. We have discussed the risks of over/undercorrection, the slight risk of loss of vision, a small risk of diplopia. Date of surgery has been offered for July for further detailed discussions/ consenting and remeasurements of her squint.  She will be seen about two weeks prior to surgery.
Diagnosis: BE cataract  I saw this gentleman in clinic today with a view to cataract surgery.  He did not wear his own specs for distance vision for the eye test and the uncorrected distance visual acuity was 6/24 bilaterally, improving to 6/9 with ph.  On the ocular examiantion he presented with bilateral cataracts and no significant fundus abnormalities.  We discussed the risks and benefit of surgery, we also discussed the alternative of not undergoing surgery and wear the required and appropriate distance glasses which should guarantee him a level of vision close to what achieved with the ph.  Mr #### haso also a significant corneal astigmatism, exceeding the 2 dioptres in both eyes, hence I warned him that he might require distance and reading glasses following surgery.  I also informed him of the characteristics of the multifocal and toric lenses, which are only available in private practice.  Mr #### was keen on proceeding with surgery to the left eye, with the implantation of a standard monofocal IOL. Accordingly, I have listyed him for surgery.
I reviewed Mrs ######### today in my Vitreoretinal Clinic.  She was referred to me for a second opinion following two macular hole operations in her right eye.  More recently she has had cataract surgery without lens implantation.    On examination today her visual acuity was 6/60 in the right and 6/6 in the left eye.  She is aphakic in the right eye.  Otherwise anterior segment examination was unremarkable.  Fundal examination revealed a large macular hole in the right eye which was confirmed today on OCT.  In the left eye there was no abnormality.    I explained to Mrs ######### today that the visual prognosis for the right eye was very poor given her  two failed macular hole procedures.  I have explained to her that this may sometimes be the case following macular hole surgery and that full closure cannot always be guaranteed.  I did however offer her the chance for a further procedure with silicone oil to see whether or not we could achieve macular hole closure.  I have however stressed that the visual acuity following this may continue to be poor or the surgery itself may fail.  She is willing to accept this risk and we plan to perform the operation in February under local anaesthetic.
Diagnosis: Bilateral Full Thickness Macular Holes Bilateral Cataracts  Aided Vision: RE 6/24 LE 6/24  Outcome: Listed for Left Vity / Peel / Gas  Many thanks for referring this delightful lady wiho reports a reduction in both eyes with the left eye affected more recently. OCT and clinical examination revealed bilateral cataracts and macular holes. We discussed the risks and benefits of surgery including the implications of gas and cataract accleration. Mrs #### is clean to proceed and we have listed her for surgery in early April. We shall of course keep you informed of her progress.
Diagnosis:  LeftPseudophakia 12/01/2013   Right Moderate Cataract    Unaided Vision: Right: 6/60 with PH:6/18  Left: 6/9    Intra-Ocular Pressure: Right:12mmHg and Left:10mmHg      This lovely 85 year old man attended the Catarct Clinic for a routine post-operative visit today.  Mr ##### underwent successful cataract surgery in the left eye in January. He achieves an excellent post-operative vision in this eye and it has healed well.  He has a significant amount of cataract present in the right eye and is keen to have surgery to remove the cataract. I have therefore listed him for a Left cataract operation.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis BE Cataract           BE previous corneal grafts 	  RE previous trabeculectomy	 	  LE previous retinopexy  Visual Acuity RE hand movements LE 6/36  I reviewed Mr ####### in clinic today. On ocular examination there are bilateral moderate cataracts. He will be followed up in 4-6 weeks with refraction, LVA and in clinic as well.
Diagnosis: Bilateral aphakia Bilateral ARN (blind RE) Left retinal detachment, silicone oil in situ long-term Recurrent left band keratopathy secondary to silicone oil Quadroplegia secondary to cerebral palsy  Vision: RE NPL, LE 1/60  Mx: Oc.Lacrilube nocte LE Awaiting left EDTA chelation (Aug 2013)  This young lady has recurrent band keratopathy due to silicone oil in her only eye. She has had multiple EDTA chelations and PTKs.   We are considering an autokeratoplasty (switching the right and left corneas) in the future, and would like your opinion regarding the possibility and safety of removal of the silicone oil in order to reduce the risk of calcium build up in the corneal transplant.  A routine appointment in the VR clinic would be much appreciated.
This 64 year old man attended the clinic follow-up after cataract surgery in the left eye 5/2/2013. He feels his vision is improved but notes some floaters in the peripheral visual field. He has vitreous syneresis with no evidence of retinal tear or detachment.  He is listed for cataract surgery in the right eye on April 9th.
This lady was referred to the Glaucoma Service via our colleagues in the Medical Retina Service where she is seen for diabetic retinopathy.  A concern was raised about optic disc asymmetry.    Ms Amin does indeed have some features suspicious for glaucomatous optic neuropathy in the right eye.  She also has significant posterior subcapsular cataract in both eyes.  In the first instance, I have recommended commencing IOP lowering treatment and also to put her on the waiting list for left cataract surgery.  She has agreed to this course of action.  I have therefore prescribed her G. Xalatan nocte to both eyes and I have put her on the waiting list for left phacoemulsification + insertion of intraocular lens to be undertaken as a local anaesthetic day case procedure.  She will receive a date for the surgery in due course and I have arranged to see her again in 3 months time.  I would be grateful if you would continue the Xalatan as a repeat prescription.
I was delighted to review Ms Kukurudza at the Adenxal clinic today.  Examination revealed bilateral Dermatochalasis and ptosis more on the left side. The pros and cons of surgical intervention has been discussed with Ms Kukurudza and he is keen of surgery. Therefore, we are going to list her for bilateral belpharoplasty and ptosis correction in due time.
This 46 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 53 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: left vitrectomy, laser retinal adhesion formation, retinopexy using cryotherapy, injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time (TUE PM ZG VR OPD).Also will be seen tomorrow morning and may stay in overnight if required as requested given long travelling  journey. He needs to posture up to the right for 1 week.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 16 May 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 18 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is right peripheral pterygium. He has been listed for right pterygium excision & conj auto-grft and will be admitted on 27 Jun 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 35 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts (probably congenital)   VISUAL ACUITY: 6/60 RE, 6/36 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for right cataract surgery in the first instance, left to follow.
Thank you very much for referring this 89 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/12 RE, 6/18 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, increased prominence of floaters, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for right cataract surgery in the first instance.
Thank you very much for referring this 72 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis :  Right significant cataract Left pseudophakia Left posterior capsule opacification Bilateral Non-Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy, no Clinically Significant Macular Oedema  She has been listed for right cataract surgery under LAC.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.  The patient mentioned that she colapsed 5-6 hours following uncomplicated cataract surgery in the other eye (heart failure). She will need anaesthetic assessment prior to the cataract surgery RE.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts. Asymmetric disc cupping - ? 2 to NTG or previous tumour pressing on nerve  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/24 RE, 6/9 LE (6/12 RE, 6/6 LE pinhole)  MANAGEMENT: Referred to Glaucoma Service - defer cataract surgery for the time being
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 71 year old woman whom you kindly reviewed in clinic with me today.   She as markedly asymmetric discs with IOP of 14 mmHg in each eye and would benefit from phasing as well visual field test examination prior to seeing you.
This 68 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Her principal diagnosis is bilateral posterior subcapsular cataract.principal diagnosisRight eye:  Mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NSC R1) Previous diabetic maculopathy treated with laser (NSC P) Left eye:  Previous diabetic retinopathy treated with scatter laser (NSC P) Previous diabetic maculopathy treated with laser (NSC P) Type2 diabetes mellitus  Visual acuity: Right eye: 6/18 Left eye: 6/12  Laser management: Not required at today's visit ,She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 56 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis:  Left Ocular Trauma 1994 with secondary glaucoma  Left esotropia-left squint surgery 2005  surgery for consecutive divergence 2005  Consecutive esotropia   Presbyopia Investigation: his visual acuity was RE 6/ 6 and LE HM convergent left eye provoked by accommodation  Management: Adviced varifocal glasses to control strabismus -not provided by his optometrist  Outcome:listed for further squint surgery left eye
The patient attended a post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis:Left Cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 22/4/13  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 1 week and then BD for 1 week and then OD for 1 week then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/9-2 Ph:6/6-2 Left: 6/24-2 ph: 6/9 IOP: Right:        16    mm/Hg Left:  15     mm/Hg            Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
This 68 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis:  Bilateral Cataracts  High Myopia -8.5 and-9.5 dioptres respectively Atrial fibrillation - not on Warfarin - daily aspirin Spinal degeneration - on Pregabalin   Visual Acuity: 6/18(6/9 PH) right 6/18(6/9 PH) Left  Comment; Ms Rutherford has noticed 12 months of gradulally increasing blurred vision in both eyes. The trial of topical lubricant drops was unsuccessful in improving her vision, although the eyes are more comfortable and I have given her a repeat prescription today. OCT scans performed in January show no evidence of subretinal neovascularisation.   We have agreed to list her for left cataract extraction under the care of Mr ##### Hamilton on 25 June 2013. We discussed postoperative refraction and she would prefer to aim for emmetropia, although would appreciate a discussion with Mr ######## on the day. She is aware that she may need to have the right operation performed soon after.
I reviewed this 39 year old man who I saw in the Strabismus Service Clinic today.  Diagnosis  prolactinoma 1986 pituitary surgery and radiotherapy 2009. squint surgery in childhood -convergent now Left divergent squint occassional diplopia -not corrected with prism   Investigation: his visual acuity was RE 6/5 and LE 6/18 temporal optic atrophy bilateral upper temporal field defects  Management: plan re do squint surgery left eye,orthoptic tests cannot confim relief of diplopia with surgery and he understands this risk.  Outcome:listed for surgery
This 60 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 47 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: right vitrectomy right retinopexy using cryotherapy right injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time. Also will be seen tomorrow morning and needs to posture face down for 1 day. Then he needs to posture upright day and night for 1 week.
Diagnoses: Bilateral Cataracts ?Left amblyopia  Visual acuity: right 6/36 (pinhole 6/18) left 6/24 (pinhole 6/12)  Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has significant cataracts and we discussed the benefits and risks of cataract surgery. She is keen to proceed.  We have arranged for her to attend for da7 case surgery on 9th September (right eye) and 23rd September (left eye).
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Retinopexy using cryotherapy, Right Injection of gas, Right Laser retinal adhesion formation  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow morning and in 1 weeks time. Needs to posture right cheek to pillow for 5 days. May stay overnight if required.
This 50 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  His intraocular pressure are 17 in right and 16 in left eye. I advised him to use the drops more regularly. G Alphagan BD and G Lumigan nocte in both eyes.  He will be seen again in the clinic in 2 to 3 months. Please keep him supplied with drops every month.
This 58 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral Open-angle glaucoma.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/5 in right eye; 6/5 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 16 mmHg in RE; 16 mmHg in LE.  Impression: Miss Buchanan is not happy with the G. Cosopt as the drops make her sight blurred. I have therefore stopped the Cosopt and changed treatment to: 1. Start G. Azarga bd 2. Continue G. Saflutan nocte to both eyes.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 3 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.  Visual acuity: left: 6/60 Unaided, 3/60 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole right: 6/36 Unaided, 6/24 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole Intra-ocular pressure: right: 17 mmHg left: 17 mmHg  He has been listed for left cataract surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has noticed increasingly blurred vision and disabling glare in both eyes. this is making driving very difficult. Visual acuity:Left: 6/9 Glasses. Right: 6/6 Glasses She has signficant bilateral cortical cataract. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 28 Jun 2013.
This lady was referred because her optometrist was concerned about the appearance of the optic discs which show physiological cupping. In the presence of normal visual fields, pupil reactions and pressures, this is of no concern. The flat naevus also observed is also of no concern so long as it remains flat.  I have reassured and discharged her today.
This 64 year old man was discharged from hospital today.  Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  Operation: left vitrectomy with cryotherapy retinopexy and injection of gas tamponade  Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% Eye Drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 daysDexamethasone 0.1% Eye Drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days, then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days, then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days, then 1 drop(s) od for 7 daysCyclopentolate 1% Eye Drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
I saw this gentleman in clinic today following his recent RE cataract surgery. He was pleased with the outcome, which was satisfactory.  He was keen on LE cataract surgery. Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. He was listed for LE phaco.  
This 81 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   She underwent right cataract surgery and her eye is settling down  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly. 
This 75 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.  Diagnosis: cataract  Operation: right phakoemulsification and iol  Prescription: g Maxitrol qds for one month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for Left cataract surgery in two weeks.
Diagnosis:    Left pseudophakia                     Right cataract.  I reviewed this gentleman 10 days after his left cataract extraction.  He has done very well and is happy with the results.  He is keen for right cataract extraction and we therefore have placed him on the list for the near future.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is left cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  -   Diagnosis: bilateral cataract             High myopia  RE -12.50-1.50 90 ,LE -9.50/-2.5 80                  - Investigations: va 6/18 RE.6/12 LE with ph normal IOP,normal myopic fundus with peripheral myopic chorioretinal changes Very keen on cataract extraction and I placed her name on waiting list for right cataract extraction  with IOL ,under LA
Diagnosis:  RE rubeotic glaucoma (blind)             RE intravitreal Avastin 12/2011 - cyclodiode 5/1/2012             LE chronic CSMO (mac laser 06/2007, IVTAX3: 10/2007,05/2008,11/2009) BCVA:  NLP RE,  6/36 ph LE IOP: 20 RE,  16 LE  We reviewed this patient in our clinic today. There was no evidence of active neovascularization today. His RE is comfortable. His LE has chronic CSMO. He had laser treatment for this in the past with no evidence of benefit. He also had 3 IVTA injections in the past with some documented improvement adn no sign of steroid responsiveness. His old FFAs show evidence of ischaemia in his LE fovea , and this is a limiting factor in terms of the expected benefit from any of the potential interventions for his LE macular oedema. However the patient is one eyed at the moment and he feels that his vision in the LE is getting worse. Today he had gross macular oedema which rendered laser treatment difficult. After discussing the potential risks and benefits of the alternative treatment we decided to proceed with a IVTA LE.
Principal Diagnosis: BE Cortical cataract RE > LE  Visual Acuity: RE 6/9; LE 6/6  This 77 year old woman attended the Cataract Clinic for a routine follow up visit. She refers reduced visual acuity and glare. On examination, bilateral cortical cataract (RE > LE) could be seen. After discussion with the patient, she has been listed for right phakoemulsification and implant of IOL and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 82 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: retained lens matter in vitreous  - Operation: right pars plana VITRECTOMY/lensectomy. Left aphakic.   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 47 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left epiretinal dissection left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
This 89 year old man was discharged from hospital today.  Diagnosis: bilateral ectropion Operation: bilateral lateral canthal sling and medial tarsoconjunctival diamonds  Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) for 14 days Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip nocte Eye (Both) for 14 days Carbomer 0.2% eye gel, 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 week.
Diagnosis: RE > LE cataract  I saw this gentleman in clinic today with a view to cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. He was listed for RE phaco.
This 90 year old woman came for a post -operative review today following left phacoemulsification surgery.She has not noted an improvement in vision however wants her right cataract done ASAP.  Her visual acuity was 6/18-2 (corrected in both eyes) and the intraocular presssure was normal. The left eye has settled nicely and posterior examination shows a large myopic stapyloma extending into the macula on the left however the right macula appears relatively healthy.  I have explained that her post-op vision is reduced due to the myopic macular degeneration. I have listed her for the right eye and hope that her vision improves once this is done.
This 85 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis  RE Pseudophakia  LE Cataract  BE Cupped optic discs. Visual fields full  He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 51 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: nanophthalmos, primary angle-closure glaucoma  - Operation: right clear lens extraction with intraocular lens implantation, and surgical iridectomy  Comments Pre-op IOP was 38mmHg on diamox. Post op IOP is 22mmHg today off Diamox. His visual acuity unaided is 6/18+2. Even though biometry suggested a + 50D IOL be used, I decided to use our strongest "stock" IOL (+40.0 D SA60AT), on the basis that biometry in patients with angle-closure is very inaccurate, and there is a tendence for a significant myopic overshoot if biometric formulae are followed. For my records, I'd be very interested to know his final refractive outcome.   His anterior chamber is formed, with no iridocorneal contact. I suggest he stays on atropine at a minimum of twice a day for 6 weeks. I have warned him about the symptoms of aqueous misdirection (blurring +/- pain). If this does happen, options include laser zonulotomy/hyaloidotomy through the surgical iridectomy and/or inferior sectoral diode laser cycloablation (treating with 5-6 shots). I'd be happy to discuss, and see him again, if this happens, if you wish. However, things seem to be be going very smoothly at the moment.   Prescription Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 3 hourly Eye (Right) for reducing Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 2 weeks Brimonidine 0.2% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 1 month Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Right) for 1 month Atropine 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 1 month Brinzolamide 10mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. Would you please arrange to see him at your earliest convenience?
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Adult vitelliform macular dystrophy both eyes, she also has total occlusion of her lower punctae. There is no diabetic retinopathy in either eye.  I think she would benefit from Low Visual aid assessment, which has been arranged.   She has been referred to the Adnexal Service for further management of the occluded punctae.  She will be seen again in this clinic in 6 months time.
Diagnosis NIDDM RE significant cataract : no fundal view B scan confirms flat retina  Vision  R 1/60, L 6/12. 6/9PH   Mrs #### has a signoficant RE cataract and is keen for cataract surgery. I have provisionally placed her on the list for a RE cataract operation on the 20.2.13, under Mr ####### team. She will be invited for pre-assesent and Biometry in due course.  We shall keep you updated.
Thank you very much for referring this 51 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis   BE Cataract  I have discussed with her the risks, benefits and alternatives of cataract surgery and she is keen to have it done. Therefore, She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 52 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. The best corrected visual acuity was 6/9 on the right and 3/60 on the left. Anterior segment examination showed anterios polar and early posterior subcapsular cataract on both eyes. The intraocular pressure is 12 mmHg on the right, and 12 mmHg on the left. Posterior segment examination showed Retinitis pigmentosa on the right and Retinitis pigmentosa, macular hole on the left. He has been referred to the vitreoretinal Service for further management.
This 82 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right cataract and left pseudophakia  The operated eye is settling down well.  We have tailed off her topical medication over the next week.  She has been listed for right cataarct surgery under LA.
I saw this 76 year old woman today following her recent treatment for a right cataract.   Everything is stable and no further treatment is required in that eye.  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis  BE CAtaract  RVA 6/60 ph 6/12 LVA 6/12 ph 6/12  He has been listed for right cataract surgery under local anesthetic
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis  BE Cataract  RVA 6/12 LVA 6/18 ph 6/12  She has been listed for right cataract surgery under sedation at City Road
This 81 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Right acute angle closure glaucoma             Left primary angle closure  Treatment: G. Cosopt BD right             G. xalatan ON right             G. maxidex BD right 2/52  This lady developed acute angle closure glaucoma at the beginning of this year when she presented with an IOP of 60 mmHg in the right eye. She underwent bilateral YAG peripheral iridotomies. Her IOP is now controlled on the above treatment. Her cataract is contributing to her angle closue in the right eye and we have placed on the waiting list for right cataract surgery in the near future. We have discussed the risks and benefits of surgery and she is happy to proceed.
Diagnosis: Quiescent mucous membrane pemphigoid Left posterior subcapsular cataract  The ocular features of pemphigoid are stable. There is a cataract in the left eye which is now affecting vision. I have therefore placed her on the waiting list for left cataract surgery under general anaesthetic.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral dense cataracts.  VISUAL ACUITY: 1/60 RE, 6/6 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for right cataract surgery in the first instance.
Diagnosis: Bilateral high myope Bilateral early lens opacities Previous right retinal detachment surgery and left prophylaxis laser treatment  Vision: RE 6/12-2; LE 6/6-1  This patient has early cataracts in both eyes but is experiencing a lot of glare and is very keen on cataract surgery. After a lengthy discussion between him and Mr ####### he has decided to proceed with surgery. In view of high myopia we have listed him for sequentail suregry, right followed by left. He is aware of the risks and benefits. We will keep you informed of his progress.
This 66 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: right vitrectomy right laser retinal adhesion formation right injection of silicone oil into vitreous   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. The best corrected visual acuity was 6/12 on the right and 6/12 on the left. Her principal diagnosis is right cataract and left pseudophakia and dry eyes. I think she would benefit from right cataract surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.
Diagnosis: BE dry AMD RE nuclear cataract LE pseudophakia   - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 10 days  I have discussed risks, benefits, and alternatives. I have also discussed the guarded visual prognosis due to the macular degeneration.  Mr ####### was happy to proceed with surgery and I listed him accordingly.
Diagnosis:R Pseudophakia           L Cataract  We have listed her for L Phaco/IOL under LA.
RVA 6/12 with PH. LVA 6/6.  Her principal diagnosis is right dislocated intraocular lens into vitreous. She has been listed for right vitrectomy, right removal of iol, right insertion of iol and will be admitted on 5 Jun 2013. However, the patient will cancel surgery if the vision improves with a contact lens.
I saw this 37 year old woman in the Adnexal Nurse Led Clinic today. On examination her blepharitis now has been much better controlled. There was only one big chalazion on the left upper lid present, both corneas were clear.She has  been advised to carry on with lid cleaning and lubricants regularly. Oc Chloramphenicol has been prescribed to massage lid margins bd for one month and she will be booked for further incision and curettage in 2-3 months time ( patient's choice).
We reviewed this young man in Mr. ###### vitreo-retinal clinic today. His viaion was 6/36 in the right eye and 6/18 in the left eye, intraocular pressures were 12mm/hg in both eyes. He has cataract in the right eye, and has been listed for a cataract extraction and lens implant on May 17th under GA.
Ms Pilbrow was reviewed in the Glaucoma Service here at St George's today. She has noticed a deterioration of the left vision over the past few months with increasing cataract - after discussion of the risks and benefits we have decided to proceed with surgery, she has been listed for left phacoemulsification + IOL under local anaesthetic. I have asked her to continue with g. Xalstsn nocte R and L.
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Her principal diagnosis is right cataract worse than the left.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 73 year old man attended the clinic for the postoperative routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis :  Right cataract Left pseudophakia  RVA: 6/12 cc, LVA: 6/5 ua improving to 6/4 cc IOP RE : 10 mmHg, LE : 11 mmHg  The operated left eye is settling down well following unomplicated cataract surgery.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol under LA.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.
Diagnosis:L Cataract           R Pseudophakia  We have listed him for L Phaco/IOL under LA.
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 57 year old woman.  Diagnosis RE pseudophakia, Full Thickness Macular Hole           LE Cataract Visual Acuity RE Counting Fingers LE 6/9 I reviewed Ms Johnson in clinic. On examination there is left eye cortical cataract, while left fundus looks within normal limits. She has been listed for left cataract extraction and lens implant.
- Diagnosis:  Left lower lid chalazion Bilateral posterior blepharitis Right vitreous floaters  Visual acuities: Right 6/5 Left 6/5  Clinical findings: 4 months history of left lower lid chalazion; No posterior vitreous detachment; No retinal tears / detachment  Plan: Discussed with patient risks and benefits of left incision and currettage Patient keen on proceeding; Listed for Left I&C under local anaesthesia Hot compresses and lid massage Oc chloramphenicol bd LE X 2/52 Ocular lubricants
This 32 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: cataract  - Operation: right surgical iridotomy right pars plana lensectomy   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Prednisolone 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) hourly Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 53 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: right posterior subcapsular cataract  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/18 RE, 6/6 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for right cataract surgery.
This 85 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: right cataract  - Operation: left phacoemulsification of cataract with intraocular lens implantation   - Operated eye is settling down well. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: RE pseudophakia, LE cataract  I saw this gentleman in clinic today with a view to LE cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. He was listed for surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.    He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:	L cataract 		R pseudophakic 30/04/13 VA:		R: 6/7.5-3 ph 6/7.5-1	L: 6/36+1 ph 6/18 Management: Right eye has settled following surgery. Patient has been asked to wean off his eye drops: gt Maxidex twice daily for one week then once daily for on week.  Patient is keen to have Left cataract surgery. Risks and benefits have been discussed. Patient is keen to proceed. A surgical date will be arranged for the near future.
Thank you very much for referring this 69 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataracts .   I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for phacoemulcification with iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 86 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His vision has become borderline for the legal driving limit. He has noticed that the vision in his left eye is misty. He has bilateral cataracts left eye worse than right. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 14 Jun 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His left vision has deteriorated. He has advanced glaucoma in the right eye and had right cataract surgery in 2008.He does have significant cataract in the left eye. He has bilateral macula drusen. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 14 Jun 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is left  cataract.   I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left  phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Diagnosis LE>RE Cataract  BE Dry Age-related Macular Degeneration Visual Acuity RE 6/9 LE 6/18 I reviewed Ms Whates in clinic. On examination there is moderate cortical cataract more in the left eye as compared to the right eye. Posterior segment examination showed macular drusen bilaterally. We discussed benefits and risks of surgery, is keen to proceed and has been listed for LE cataract extraction and lens implant.
This 58 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 55 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant left cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/36 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for Left cataarct surgery on:04.11.2013
Thank you very much for referring this 52 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis  BE EArly cataract  BE BLepharitis  BE Dry eyes  RVA 6/6 LVA 6/6  She has been adviced to perform eyelid hygiene on a daily basis  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her. 
This 60 year old man had uncomplicated right cataract surgery. His vision is 6/5 UA and very happy. WE discussed risks and he wishes to proceed with left cataract surgery
This 44 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: left vitrectomy left laser retinal adhesion formation left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 10 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 weeks time ON 13/12/2012 EEzra VR clinic am. He will also be reviewed tomorrow morning and he needs to posture sitting upright for 1 week day and night.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. The best corrected visual acuity was 6/9 on the right and 6/18 on the left. Anterior segment examination showed NS 1+  on the right and NS ++ on the left. The intraocular pressure is 13 mmHg on the right, and 12 mmHg on the left. Her principal diagnosis is LEFT cataract. I think she would benefit from left cataract surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is right cataract  .  The benefits and risks of surgery were fully discussed and he has been listed for right phacoemulcification  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  The best corrected visual acuity was 6/9 on the right and 6/9 on the left, but he complains of difficulty with TV and small print.    His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring Miss O'Shea to the vitreoretinal clinic.  As you are aware she is a diabetic patient with aggressive proliferative disease which has been treated up until now with laser PRP.  In the left eye she has an area of chalk posterior hyaloid which is causing significant traction and macular oedema in the left eye on OCT.    At her clinic appointment today I have said to Miss O'Shea that her acuity in the left eye (26/24) was in part due to areas of vitreomacular traction.  Following a discussion of the risks and benefits of surgery she has decided to proceed under a local anaesthetic on the 7 March.  I shall of course keep you informed as to her progress.  Many thanks for your referral.
This 75 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   She underwent cataract surgery in her right eye and her vision has improved  Diagnosis   RE Pseudophakia   LE Cataract   BE Meibomian gland dysfuction  RVA 6/12 ph 6/9 LVA 6/18 ph 6/18  I have advised her to perform eyelid hygiene on a daily basis  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
I saw this 62 year old man today following his recent treatment for a bilateral pseudophakia. Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him from the clinic.
Thank you very much for referring this visually impaired 60 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today together with his daughter.  His principal diagnosis is right complex cataract in his only eye.He has a mobile lens with zonular dehiscence. His left eye has no useful vision from previous trauma and optic atrophy.  He has been listed for right cataract surgery  with planned anterior vitrectomy and anterior chamber IOL under intravenous sedation. An admission date will be arranged shortly and I plan to do the surgery myself.
Diagnosis:  Left cataract surgery 8th March 2013              Right cataract   Visual acuity: Right: 6/12-2, 6/9-1PH  Left: 6/18, no improvement PH  This patient was reviewed in the clinic today following cataract surgery to her left eye two weeks ago.  Her eye is settling down well and the vision feels brighter.  Unfortunately there has not been any improvement in the snellen acuity as the left eye is amblyopic.  She is keen to have the right cataract surgery done as the right eye is significantly hypermetropic and she is struggling with the imbalance.  She also feels the vision in the right eye is quite dull now.  Her left eye is settling well. There is a suture in the cornea but we will leave this until next time to remove.  I have listed her for right cataract surgery under local anaesthetic in view of the anisometropia and the fact that her right anterior chamber drainage angle is slightly narrow. We will keep you informed as to her progress.
This 57 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: ptosis of eyelid  - Operation: right correction of ptosis by aponeurotic repair   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip nocte Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review next 2/4/13 in ADCRV1.
This 68 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 62 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: left vitrectomy left retinopexy using cryotherapy left injection of gas   - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 6 year old boy attended the children's Accident and Emergency department today. Ezriel scratched his left eye three days ago and was started on Occ Chloramphenicol three times a day. Today his eye is more comfortable, but his vision is still hazy. On examination visual acuity is 6/7.5 in both eyes. The left corneal abrasion has healed, but there is still stromal inflammation, making his vision hazy. There is no inflammation inside the eye.  I have advised using Occ Chloramphenicol for another week, four times a day if possible. We will review him in one week.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataracts  .  I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for left phacoemulcification with iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: BE cataract  I saw this lady in clinic today with a view to BE cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. She was listed for bilateral sequential phaco, RE first.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral pseudophakia Left posterior capsular opacification Treatment: Left Yag laser capsulotomy G Maxidex tds for one week left eye. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her.
This 4 year old girl attended the clinic for a follow up visit after attending A&E on 29/6/2013. Her left eye surface is very inflamed. This is likely to be a reactivation of a herpes simplex virus infection; in addition, Anneliese has chronic lid margin inflammation (blepharitis), which makes her eye surface very vulnerable. Today her visual acuity in the left eye is reduced to 6/24; visual acuity in the right eye is 6/7.6. There is a dense opacity in the left central cornea, extending upwards. The epithelium is intact.  The best treatment for herpes simplex is an eye ointment, which is specific for use on the eye. I understand Anneliese's family have so far not used the ointment, because they fear it is too strong for the eye. Anneliese would benefit from this treatment, and it does not have any side-effects. Because the eye is so inflamed and the epithelium is intact, I have also prescribed a mild anti-inflammatory eye drop. This MUST only be used when also using aciclovir.  For the blepharitis, I have recommended daily warm lid compresses and lid margin cleaning and have given Anneliese's father a leaflet to explain how to do these. We will review Anneliese in Mr ######## clinic next week.
Diagnosis: Keratoconus - Right corneal transplant (Oct 2011) Right cataract IOP steroid responder  Vision: RE 6/36, LE PL  Mx: g.Lotemax od RE g.Timolol 0.25% bd RE  I reviewed this gentleman in the Cornea clinic. His corneal transplant is clear, but he has developed a cataract in that eye. His intraocular pressure is also elevated today in response to the dexamethasone eye drops.  We have booked him for right cataract surgery and removal of graft suture removal in September. I have also altered his eye drop regimen to the above. I would appreciate it if you could ensure he has ongoing prescriptions.
This 61 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Retinopexy using cryotherapy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 75 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral Ocular hypertension.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/5 in right eye; 6/9 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 23 mmHg in RE; 25 mmHg in LE. CCT is right 557 & left 554. Both optic discs are healthy. Visual fields are unreliable.  No treatment is required at present.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for few months.
This 14 year old boy attended the clinic for a follow up visit. He presented with left contact-lens related pseudomonas keratitis on 16/05/2013, which has since then been slowly resolving on topical levo/moxifloxacin and steroids. Today visual acuity is right logMar 0.40, left 0.22 with glasses; with pinhole: Right 0.08, left 0.00. The left epithelial defect has healed. There is a stromal scar with minimal stromal inflammation. There are no inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber. The intraocular pressure measures 15mmHg. Cup disc ratio is 0.4. The right cornea has a small rust ring embedded near the nasal limbus, which I have removed.  I have re-prescribed G Moxifloxacin and G Dexamethasone 0.1% twice daily left eye, to be tapered to once daily in four weeks, and to be stopped in two months. I have discharged Samuel, as the family are moving to India next week. His parents will seek referral to a local ophthalmologist for ongoing care.
This lady's right full thickness macular hole has closed following surgery in April. She has now developed a right cataract.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 16 Sep 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman whom I saw in the cataract clinic today.   Diagnosis: Bilateral cataract L>R            Anisometropia  VA: RE 6/12 (PHNI) LE 6/60 (PH=6/24)  She has been listed for bilateral phakoemulsification and iol and dates for admission will be arranged shortly.
Diagnoses 1. Diabetes  no retinopathy RE  minimal retinopathy LE 2. Pseudophakia BE 3. PCO LE  Ms. Mohamed returns today and reports no change. She reports poor vision in the left eye. There is minimal diabetic retinopathy and 2+ PCO in the left eye. Although doubt PCO explains 6/24 (PH) vision but patient had inconsitent VA results on our exams.  We have performed YAG capsulotomy in the left eye today. She is to use Maxidex QDS in the left eye then stop. We will see her in 1 month. Signs and symptoms of RD were reviewed.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/60 Glasses, 6/60 Pinhole Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 2 on the right eye. Previously 12 injections of lucentis right eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
Diagnosis: Exudative macula degeneration   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/96 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with Eylea. He does not need any injection today.  He will be reviewed in 6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: R: Raised pterygium  We reviewed Mrs ######### in the Corneal service at City Road today with the above diagnosis. She was referred to us for consideration of pterygium excision.  Examination today revealed a raised pterygium in the right eye, which Mrs ######### feels affects her day to day life. She is very keen to have this removed to improve the comfort of her eye. Otherwise her eyes appeared bilaterally very healthy.  Unaided vision measured R: 6/24 PH 6/6 and L: 6/18 PH 6/6.  Following review by the consultant in clinic we have arranged for her to have the pterygium excised on 2nd April 2014.   She will be reviewed post-operatively.
This 60 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days
Her principal diagnosis is keratoconus both eyes  I saw Ms Hariharn along with her corneal topography measurements today.  There is no doubt that she meets criteria for keratoconus in both eyes, but retain good unaided vision with no correction in the left eye.  At 51 years old, and with no subjective changes to her vision within the last few years, it is unlikely that her condition will deteriarate.    She tells me it is 20 years since she last tried contact lenses.  I have arranged for her to be followed up with the contact lens practitioners here.  I have not arranged to see her again routinely, but would be happy to should she have further questions or problems with her eyes.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/60 improving to 6/9 with pinhole right and 6/9 unaided left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right Eye Phacoemulsifcation and IOL
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral mild cataracts RVA 6/6, LVA 6/9 Healthy fundi  She has good visual acuity, but is very symptomatic from glare secondary to her cataracts. She drives often and is finding this very troublesome.  After discussing the risks and benefits of cataract surgery, she is happy to proceed. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol on 4 Apr 2014.
Diagnosis: Right eye:  No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye: No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)    Bilateral cataract, clinically significant on the LE,listed for the ctaract operation. Diabetes mellitus  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 3/60 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole    He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  He has been referred to his PCT's diabetic retinopathy screening programme who will review him in one year time.
I reviewed the above today. He has a pterygium on the right eye which he is very keen to have removed. There is also some inferior forniceal symblepharon in the right eye. He has been listed for right pterygium excision & conj auto-grft and will be admitted on 25 Jun 2014. I have explained the risk of 1 in 10 of recurrence and he is happy to proceed.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis:right Cataract  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the  24/3/14  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex three times a day for 7 days and then twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/18+2 ph: 6/12                     Left:      6/9-2 ph: 6/9 IOP: Right:       16     mm/Hg   Left:   12               mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Diagnosis: Hypermetropia  Comment:  Isabel wears glasses for hypermetropia, which slightly undercorrect her actual prescription. She does not have any problems with her vision, particular no difficulty seeing at night. Her visual acuity is perfect with her current glasses, at -0.100 logMAR in both eyes, and so is her 3D vision (stereopsis), at 55 seconds of arc. Her eyes are straight, there is esophoria only (a slight tendency for the eyes to drift inward, which is controlled with both eyes are open). On cycloplegic refraction, I found a hypermetropic prescription of Right +7.00/+0.50x90 and Left +7.50DS. The ocular media are clear, and optic nerve head, macula and retina are healthy in both eyes.  In view of her excellent vision and stereovision I would not recommend changing her glasses. She should have a test for glasses once a year. I have discharged her from follow-up.
We reviewed Mrs ######## in the clinic today.  She is myope at about -9 RE and has significant cortical and posterior subcapsular cataract. VA RE is 6/36.  VA LE is HM. She had previous cataract surgery in 2012 but has LE macular scar.  We will list her for RE cataract surgery under consultant list as RE is only eye.  She takes Warfarin, so her INR should be tested before surgery.
This 81 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/5 left.  She has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) Eye (Right) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 3 on the left eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 3/60 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 4 on the right eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 10 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:    right cataract surgery  We discussed the COMPLICATIONS, benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 47 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Left cataract surgery- under guarded prognosis due to the nature of the cataract- possibly a traumatic cataract.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Central serous chorioretinopathy  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  He received his Avastin injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 2 on the left eye.  He has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. He is aware that he should report to eye casualty if he experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  He will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
This 78 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/12 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Right eye:  Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye: Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)    Macular scar secondary to previous wet age-related macular degeneration POAG - drops confusing, IOP high today 21 right and 30 left, CD ratio 0.6 right and 0.8 left. Drops prescribed today g Latanoprost nocte right and left and Cosopt right and left. Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: CF Unaided  Nik - This gentleman's next glaucoma appointment is in Nov.  Do you want to see him sooner? He has been referred to his CCG's diabetic retinopathy screening programme who will review him in one year time.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  We have discussed the benefits and risks of surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment at present. The risks of surgery discussed: 1:1000 risk of severe complication which could mean permanent visual loss, 1: 100 risk of requiring additional surgery for various reasons, 1:20 risk of a less serious complication, 1:10 need for a laser procedure to clear capsule opacification within a few years after the surgery.  As he has a longstanding exophoria with L/R, we have discussed the possibility of phoria decompensation after cataract surgery which could result in double vision with further treatment being needed, including prism glasses and possible squint surgery.  Also, refractive outcomes were discussed including the option of having toric lens implanted.  Patient is keen to have sequential cataract surgery L>R and have toric IOL implanted if that would be appropriate.  I have arranged an orthoptic assessment and pentacam exams to be done at City Road, and will arrange for him to be seen at Mr. ######### clinic to book surgery if appropriate on the same day.
This 66 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
- Diagnosis:  Bilateral Uveitic glaucoma / Multifocal choroiditis Bilateral Trabeculectomies and mitomycin C Left Baeverldt Tube and mitomycin C 2008 Bilateral pseudophakia Left Endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK) 2 October 2013  Visual acuities: Right 6/6 Left 2/36   - Medications prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days then 1 drop(s) 6/day for Until review Sodium hyaluronate 0.2% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Left) Until review Azarga twice daily left eye Iopidine 0.5% three times daily left eye Acular three times daily both eyes  Miss Duerden attended our clinic today. She reported a 1 week history of soreness and redness in her left eye. She had not noticed a deterioration in her left vision.  On examination, her left eye was injected. Her corneal graft was clear with no features of rejection. She had some flare with few cells in her left anterior chamber. Corneal thickness were right 538microns and left 671microns. Intraocular pressures were right 12mmHg and left 16mmHg. There was no posterior uveitis. She had a left cupped optic disc.  Her steroid drops have been increased in her left eye to control her recurrence of anterior uveitis. She has been advised to continue the rest of her other drops as prescribed. She will be seen in the corneal clinic next week. We will review her in 4 weeks.
This patient with stable glaucoma was seen in the corneal clinic today. He complains of worsening vision in his good right eye. VA- CF RE,HM LE.  IOP 12mmRE,17mmLE. He has localised corneal bullous keratopathy in the superior part of the cornea possibly related to endothelial   damage from  previous cataract surgery. He will benefit from surgery to improve vision in this right eye. We have placed him on waiting list for right DSAEK to be done in Sept 14.
This 68 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 57 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 3/60 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
History - Referred from screening service for ?right macular oedema. Vision subjectively unchanged.  Examination - VA 6/9 OU, bilateral cortical cataracts, mild non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy with minimal oedema superior to the right macula (not meeting treatment criteria.  Plan - Follow-up in Dr. Egan's Clinic in 5 months with OCT.
The decision was made to undertake a cataract extraction and implant on this man's right eye today. His intraocular pressure was better controlled at 15mmHg RE but a fundus view wasn't possible although the graft was quiet.  He has been prescribed Fluorometholone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) Until review Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) Until review Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) Until review.   He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 19 Nov 2014.
This 82 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left pseudophakia This woman is happy with the result of recent left cataract surgery. She will taper her post op eye drop; g. Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop 2/day for 7 days, then 1 drop 1/day for 7 days.  She has a symptomatic right cataract and has been listed for right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthetic on an anaesthetic covered list as she has COPD.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral cortical cataract.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL and will be admitted on 7 Nov 2014.
Diagnosis: Bilateral fuchs' corneal dystrophy, Left phaco + IOL + DSAEK (Oct 2013), healthy graft.   Plan: RE Phaco + IOL + DMEK under GA   FML OD LE for 1 year
Thank you very much for referring Dr Stevenson whom I saw in the clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left epiretinal membrane Bilateral cataracts Previous radial keratotomies 20 years ago RVA 6/6, LVA 6/12 (6/9 PH) IOP 16 right and left  He is becoming increasingly symptomatic in his left eye, and would like to consider surgery. After explaining the risks and benefits, he is happy to proceed.  He has been listed for left vitrectomy, left epiretinal membrane peel, left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 5 Nov 2014.
This 89 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 61 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Right open-angle glaucoma.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/5 in right eye; 6/6 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 19 mmHg in RE; 18 mmHg in LE.  He has a family history of glaucoma and his optic discs showed asymmetrical cupping of 0.8, 0.6. with an early inferior visual defect right.  He has been prescribed Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) Until review.   Review 3 months
This 74 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right nuclear cataract  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days Atropine 1% eye drops, 1 drop (s) bd  (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2-3 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 4 months.
RVA CF. LVA 6/6.  Right macular hole with flat profile - keen for surgery. Cataracts.  This patient with six months of reduced vision on the right understands the guarded prognosis attached to surgery. He is nevertheless keen to go ahead and has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol, right vitrectomy, right internal limiting membrane peel, right injection of gas and will be admitted on 2 Jan 2015.
This 61 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right nuclear cataract  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
This 3 year old boy was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left exotropia  - Operation: BILATERAL Medial rectus recession  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 week in Clare Roberts clinic.
Thank you very much for referring this 53 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for LEFT phaco and iol
Diagnosis: Bilateral  cataracts  Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses   She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 12 months. She has been listed for RE cataract surgery today.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/5 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 72 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/12 left.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 49 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant posterior subcapsular cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phacoemulsification and IOL.   There is a risk of recurrence of a VZV keratitis for which we will prescribe prophylactic acyclovir tablets 400 mg bd to be taken 1 month before and 2 months after right eye surgery.
Diagnosis:  AMD  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, IOP CHECKED IN GLAUCOMA CLINIC TODAY Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with . He does not need any injection today.  He will be reviewed in 4-6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
This 63 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Loteprednol etabonate 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. His principal diagnosis is Left posterior vitreous detachment.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Contact lens Left Eye: 6/9 Contact lens Intra-ocular pressure: right: 10 mmHg left: 10 mmHg Dilated fundi examination showed healthy retinae and optic discs. The condition explained and a leaflet about floaters given to the patient. No treatment is required at present, but he should attend Eye A&E Service if he develop sudden further visual symptoms.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him.
This 21 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right conjunctival laceration  - Operation: Right Examination under anaesthesia + conjunctival debridement  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 54 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 2/60 left.   He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery to a very limited extend After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 20 May 2014.   We discussed the COMPLICATIONS, benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/24 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral nuclear cataract.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Mrs ####### was seen in our clinic following left phacoemulsification and IOL implantation. She is happy with the outcome and would like to undergo the procedure for the right eye. I have explained the guarded prognosis due to pre-existing macular degeneration and listed her for the surgery. Further report will follow.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/60 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   right cataract surgery  We discussed the COMPLICATIONS, benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Glasses Left Eye: 6/96 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 5 on the right eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
This 82 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following .  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/18 PH 6/9 right and 6/9 PH 6/6 left.  He is to continue with the maxidex for 2 weeks TDS 1/25 then BD 1/52  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left phaco and IOL.   He informs me his blood pressure was low recently and he is seeing yourself in a few days to have the checked. We will also review it prior to surgery at pre-assessment.  .
This 75 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  History: New referral to cataract service, VA blurred in BE POH: reading and distance glasses, dry eyes, photopsia in the left temporal field of vision at night FH: no history of glaucoma PMH: Bilary colic, knee arthritis, hyperlipidemia, hypertension DH: atrovastatin 10mg, losartan 50mg, bendrofumethiazide 2.5mg, paracetamol 500mg,  Allergies: Ramipril Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole Anterior segment: right: Moderate nuclear cataract left: Mild nuclear cataract She has been listed for  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 5 year old boy attended the Accident and Emergency department because of watery, red and itchy eyes. He is also being seen at UCLH and has a follow-up appointment there.   On examination today the eye lids were clean, the conjunctiva was inflamed inferiorly. Corneal staining, no infiltration. Fundus was normal.   We have prescribed optive eye drops BE tid, chloramphenicol tid BE for 10 days and FML bd for one week, then od for one week and then stop.  We did not make a follow-up appointment as he is already being seen at UCLH.
This 66 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Principal diagnosis: Right Nuclear cataract Secondary diagnosis: Left Pseudophakia  History: First post-op cataract follow up, LEFT phaco 5/52 ago. Due to be listed for second eye. CVA 3 yr ago with limited communication since then. Accompanied by family relative who says she thinks the vision in the left eye is appreciably better. Difficult to examine at slit-lamp.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted in the near future.
This 83 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis:  Bilateral cataracts (R>L) Glaucoma suspect  Mrs ### is complaining of a deterioration in her visual acuity (R>L) and this is affecting her driving. I understand that she as listed to have cataract surgery at Watford but due to reasons that are not entirely clear to me the surgery was cancelled. Examination today shows bilateral nuclear cataracts whilst fundal examination shows a suspicious optic disc with peripapillary atrophy. I could not detect any retinal hemorrhage today.   After discussing the risks and benefits of surgery I have listed Mrs ### to undergo right cataract extraction under LA. She will need an INR level done in the week preceding surgery. I have also referred her for further assessment to our glaucoma clinic.   We shall keep you updated with regards to her progress.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery. He is experiencing blurred vision with his right eye and has been experiencing some dull pain after a prolonged time when watching TV.  His visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right cataract surgery
This 30 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Diagnosis:   Right post pseudomonas keratitis corneal scar   This gentleman's right VA is poor because of corneal scarring. After discussing the risks and benefits of surgery I have listed him for right corneal transplantation (DALK) under GA.
RV 6/9. LVA 6/6.  I saw this 58 year old man today following his recent treatment for a Bilateral pseudophakia. Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him from the clinic.
RVA 6/12. LVA 6/36.  Right pseudophakia. Left central retinal vein occlusion.  Awaiting appointment with Medical Retina service with regards left eye.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Right Cataract           Bilateral Suspicious Discs  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 11/08/14   Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex Once a day for 5 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/12-2 ph:6/9                     Left:             6/12+2 ph: 6/9 IOP: Right:      18      mm/Hg   Left:        20          mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan:1 . Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)      2. After right cataract to have Fields test to review Suspicious discs
This 61 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His unaided vision was 6/18-1 ph 6/9 right and 6/6+3 left.  He has been asked to continue with G Maxidex 0.1% Le 1 drop bd for further 4 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 72 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following .  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was6/9-1 ph 6/9 right and 6/12-1 ph6/9left.  She has been asked to continue tapering her drops G maxidex 0.1% RE  tds further 4 days then Bds 1 week and ods 1 week then stop.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 42 year old man attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic.   History: New referral from A& E for assessment and management Poor vision since childhood. Used to attend North middlesex hospital around 2000  RE Chalazion with inflammed conj 22/08/14 Bilateral Ahpakic Glaucoma 22/08/14 Bilateral Other Macular scars 2208/14  Visual acuity: Right Eye: HM Glasses Left Eye: CF Glasses Intra-ocular pressure: right: 18 mmHg left: 15 mmHg The intraocular pressure has responded well to the treatment started at our A&E. He should continue on: He has been prescribed Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) Until review Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) Until review.  I would be grateful if you could continue prescribing the above. He is being registered as severely visually impaired. He will be seen again in the clinic in 6 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol, under general anesthesia.
This gentleman was referred from the glaucoma clinic with a right epiretinal membrane in the right eye causing reduced vision and distortion. He has bilateral pseudophakia and controlled primary open angle glaucoma. He has bilateral posterior vitreous detachments with the right epiretinal membrane confirmed on OCT. His visual acuities are 6/24 right 6/9 left. We discussed the risks and benefits of proceeding with surgery and he is keen to proceed therefore we have placed on the list.
This 60 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Wih appropriate spectacle correction, her left acuity improves to 6/9.  I have listed her for right cataract surgery with a very guarded prognosis.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left Cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 30/9/14  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex three times a day for 7 days and then twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/6                     Left:             6/12 ph:6/9 IOP: Right:      17      mm/Hg   Left:   19               mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Thank you very much for referring this 85 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   Left eye phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  With kind regards,
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 71 year old man. He has an ischaemic central retinal vein occlusion in his right eye with macular ischaemia on fluoroscein angiography from April 2014. The ischaemic nature of his CRVO means that vision is poor and does not improve significantly despite reducing the macular oedema.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 3/60 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses.  Intra-ocular pressure: right: 25 mmHg left: 18 mmHg  He is 1 month post fifth Ozurdex implant with minimal cataract, less macular oedema but no improvement in vision. I am booking him for peripheral laser to the ischaemic retina in my clinic in one month's time since there is a risk of neovascularisation in the anterior segment. I would be grateful if you could book him for a routine appointment in your clinic after this. He was originally diagnosed in October 2012 in Casualty, after which he was followed up in your clinic before staying in the RVO clinic from mid-2013.  Many thanks.
This 69 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Blepharitis   She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/6 Pinhole   She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days Carmellose sodium 0.5% with glycerine 0.9% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) continuously Eyelid hygiene is strongly recommended as well We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
This man's post-operative cystoid macular oedema on the right has settled and both eyes were quiet today. His vision corrects to 6/12 with pinhole in both eyes and he now go ahead with getting his glasses updated.  He's been discharged from the cataract service and has an appointment with the medical retina service in January next year.
I reviewed this 75 year old gentleman in the intravitreal treatment clinic today.  Diagnosis = bilateral age-related macular degeneration - right choroidal neovascular membrane (8th Eylea injection on 11/10/14) - left atrophic macular scar  RVA: 6/9  LVA: 6/24  Mr ###### reports no recent changes to his vision, but does report that both his eyes are uncomfortable of late. Examination shows bilateral drusen and pigment change, with patches of atrophic scarring; in the right the scar is juxtafoveal, whereas in the left eye it is centrally placed at the fovea. An OCT today shows no recurrence of the fluid in the right macular, although there is an ongoing slim pigment epithelial detachment. Both eyes were dry.  9th Eylea injection administered today.  G. Optive QDS and occ. Lacrilube ON were prescribed.   Mr ###### knows to attend the Eye Casualty if he develops any changes to his vision, or redness, or pain.  We will see him again in 8 weeks.
This 24 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral ocular hypertension.  Examination: Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided   The intraocular pressure measured 24 mmHg in RE and 23 mmHg in LE.  We discussed the pros and cons of treatment and it was decided to defer this for the time being.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 6 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis: bilateral cataracts (R>L)  Mrs ### has noticed a reduction in her VA. Examination shows bilateral cataracts. After discussing the risks and benefits of surgery, I have listed her to undergo sequential cataract extraction under LA (right eye first).
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Nuclear cataract  Conclusion: Booked for first eye, left phaco, LAS @ CR, BCL to do, target emmetropia
Diagnosis: Right eye:  No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye: No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)    Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  She has been referred to her CCG's diabetic retinopathy screening programme who will review her in one year time.
Glaucoma clinic:  Diagnoses: Left eye repeated blunt trauma over 2011-12 Left subluxed crystaline lens, prolpsed vitreous & Ocular hypertension June 2014 Left vitrectomy, fragmatome lensectomy & scleral tunnel IOL June 2014 Left secondary pigment dispersion and glaucoma  VA  6/12 pinhole 6/9 each eye  IOP Right 14  Left 23mmHg (on MMT)  Management options discussed - long term diamox not a good option, Trabveculectomy would be at high risk of failure, Laser iridotomy or removal of IOL would be risky and would not address already damaged trabecular meshwork and control pressure  Plan: Waiting list for Left Baerveldt tube with sclera patch graft under general anesthetic.  Continue current drop and tablet regimen: g iopidine 3 x day  LEFT eye g cosopt 2 x day LEFT eye g lumigan 0.1 nocte LEFT eye po dimox 250mg SR 2 x day  - please review U&Es
01/01/15 Right Primary repair of corneoscleral laceration (glass injury)  RVA HM LVA 6/5 Mr ######## right eye wound is closed but he has vitreous haemorrhage and a possible posterior lens capsule rupture. After discussing the pros and cons of surgery we have agreed to proceed with a secondary repair under GA with a guarded visual prognosis. He can return to work for next week prior to his scheduled op on 26/01/15.
This 2 year old girl attended the Accident and Emergency department. She was discharged from outpatients on January 9 following successful probing and syringing of tear duct in November 2014. Over the weekend she developed a watery, sticky right eye. On examination the lower lacrimal punctum is patent and apposed. The tear meniscus is raised. There is a watery discharge and follicular conjunctivitis. The cornea is clear. No lymph nodes are palpable. Adama has a cold and a runny nose. The most likely diagnosis is adenoviral conjunctivitis, which I would expect to clear over 2-4 weeks. I have given Adama a follow-up appointment in four weeks; the family will cancel the appointment if the watering has resolved by then.
This 84 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. Principal diagnosis: Right Cataract Secondary diagnosis: Left Pseudophakia   She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole   She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 14 year old boy attended the Accident and Emergency department. He developed red eyes after wearing computer goggles at school two weeks ago. An optometrist prescribed anti-allergy eyedrops, but symptoms did not improve. In addition, Tyreece was poked in the left eye yesterday. On examination visual acuity is 0.00logMAR unaided in both eyes. There is papillary conjunctivitis in both eyes. No lymph nodes are palpable. The cornea is clear. The anterior chamber is not inflamed, and fundoscopy is normal in both eyes. I agree that this is allergic conjunctivitis, possibly atopic,as Tyreece also has asthma. He has been prescribed Olopatadine 1mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) for 1 month, and Carmellose sodium 0.5% with glycerine 0.9% eye drops, 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) for 1 month. I have discharged him from follow-up.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was  right 6/12 and  left 6/18.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left cataract extraction and lens implant.
Diagnosis: Right eye:  Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye: Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)    Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  Ms Williams has had an old Branch retinal vein occlusion in the left eye. At present this has fully resolved. No further treatment is required.  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  She has been referred to her CCG's diabetic retinopathy screening programme who will review her in one year time.
Diagnoses: Right pseudophakia Left cataract Left corneal scarring following metal foreign body injury 15 years ago Left ptosis following accident in 1986  Thank you for referring this gentlemen to our clinic. he reports deterioration in vision on the left eye and trouble with his normal activities such as reading,.  On examination he does have a significant cataract in the left eye. Posterior segment exponentiation was unremarkable. He does have corneal scarring in the left eye. Risks and benefits of surgery have been explained; he is keen to go ahead with left eye cataract surgery. I have listed him for this.
This 75 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He had post operative corneal oedema which has now resolved.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Macular retinal oedema secondary to Central retinal vein occlusion  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses  He received his Lucentis injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 3 on the left eye.  He has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. He is aware that he should report to eye casualty if he experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  He will be reviewed in 5 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has bilateral cataracts, RE>LE. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for RE phaco+iol  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses Left Eye: 6/96 Glasses  She received her Lucentis injection to the right eye, and Lucentis injection to the left eye today. The number of injection - 18 on the right eye, and 2 on the left eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye, and G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 5 weeks.
This 77 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 7 days   then 1 drop bd for 7 days   then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: CRVO OD 		Cataract OD   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses Intra-ocular pressure: right: 15 mmHg left: 17 mmHg  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with Lucentis. He does not need any injection today.  He will be reviewed in 3 months, after his cataract surgery and Lucentis injection next January.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/60 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  RIGHT CATARACT SURGERY   We discussed the benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. He understands that he will require distance and near correction after cataract surgery due to his astigmatism.
This 66 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis: bilateral epiphora  Mr ###### has significant lid laxity as well as partial nasolacrimal duct stenosis which accounts for his watery eye symptoms. After discussing the risks and benefits of surgery I have today listed him to undergo bilateral lateral tarsal strip and inferior retractor recession under LA.  I would be grateful if you could make an assessment of this patient and let us know whether he would be able to safely stop his aspirin 10 days prior to his operation.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/36 Pinhole            Bilateral primary open angle glaucoma  Treatment: g. cosopt BD BE            g. lumigan (0.1%) nocte BE   He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised. His intraocular pressure was raised today and I have advised him of the importance of administering his drops.  He will be reviewed in 9 months and in glaucoma clinic within the next 2 months.
This 51 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left post-enucleation socket syndrome  - Operation: Left Tarsorrhaphy - permanent  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip tid Eye (Left) for 10 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time at Mr ##### Monday clinic.
left advanced glaucoma bilateral cataract surgery poor compliance with drops  VA RE 6/6 LE 6/18 ph 6/9  IOP 19; 46 Was given diamox 500mg and IOP reduced to 14; 28 CCT 534; 567  Unfortunately the patient stopped all his drops and when he was reviewed the IOP was very high in the LE. He has been poorly compliant with Rx for a number of months now. Unfortunately the left now has advanced disc damage - 0.9 The right disc is 0.6  After a detailed discussion with the patient and his son we have decided to proceed with a Left Tube Surgery on the 18/3/14. He understands the risks of the procedure.  He should use xalatan nocte and cosopt bd in both eyes and iopidine tds in the left. I have emphasized the need for compliance Please put the drops on his repeat prescription  Review 4 weeks with fields
This 84 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right phakoemulsification and IOL on Friday 7th March 2014.
This 68 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for left needling of bleb on 8 May 2014.  On examination patients blood pressure was 185/98 mmHg.  Please review and alter/commence treatment as indicated and kindly keep us informed of any changes.  Please fax any information to 020 7566 2980.  A copy of his ECG taken today is included for your records/review.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left cataract extraction and lens implant
This patient was reviewed in the glaucoma clinic today.  Diagnosis: Open angle glaucoma-normal tension bilateral posterior vitreous detachments dry eyes  Visual acuity:  RE6/6  LE6/9  Intraocular pressure: RE 14 LE 14  Management: g. ganfort od both eyes g. azopt bd left eye g. celluvisc 0.5% prn both eyes -please provided on a repeat basis  Review: 3 months for IOP phasing and visual field.  there is evidence of progress here on the left. we have increased the medical treatment as above.
Diagnosis: left herpes simplex keratitis Failed penetrating keratoplasty x2 left eye Band keratopathy left eye  Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has a long history of herpes simplex in the left eye with two failed corneal grafts. He manages well on occasional topical prednisolone 0.5% and topical aciclovir ointment as required.  His visual acuity is 6/6 with glasses in the right eye while the left sees only hand movements.  We discussed the various options for the left eye. A further corneal graft would carry a high risk of failure and it is unclear what the visual potential is for the left eye. There is the option of removing the band keratopathy (calcium deposits) from the surface of the left eye should it prove troublesome.   At present, Mr ######## is happy to continue with topical therapy as required. I have arranged a review in a year.
This 41 year old gentleman attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the MRE clinic.    Principal diagnosis:  Left Fibrovascular macular scar Bilateral extensive drusen affecting posterior pole  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/60 Glasses  History: LEFT Gradual deterioration of vision/blurred vision in the past month.  POHx/ Had 5 lucentis before in France (>2 years ago), PDT in the LE. Investigations done in France including blood tests, CXR, brain scan - all normal.  PSHx/ Ex-smoker - 6 cig/day. No ETOH Gave up 7 yrs ago. Works as a chef. Medication - nil. No allergies. FHx/ Father's uncle possibly affected. No-one else known. All family members in France.   Posterior segment: right: Signficant numbers of hard drusen/temporal atrophy left: Signficant numbers of hard drusen. Large, central fibrovascular scar.   Investigation:  OCT: LE - SRF, IRF overlying scarring. RE - no CNV/fluid. FFA: LE - Slight leakage from CNV but mainly staining from fibrosis.  Clinical management:  LEFT CNV/scar associated with young-onset drusen. ?MPGN (renal function tests normal - bloods done in France),  ?Genetic cause - Doynes/Dominant drusen. Left eye unlikey to benefit from treatment due to extent of subfoveal scarring. Needs further investigation of aetiology.  Kindly seen by Mr ######## (Mr Islam away): Explained that left eye very unlikely to benefit from Lucentis and likely to remain stable.  See in Genetics clinic in 3 months. To attend A&E if any deterioration.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      High-risk proliferative retinopathy(NSC R3A and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 1  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  Laser Management: Left Eye: Booked for a future date Laser type: PRP Comments: booked for indirect laser in theatre  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 4 weeks
This 76 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days.  We have advised him to consult his optician for new spectacles.  He wants to wait till November with his L eye surgery . Please refer him back when he returns from holiday.  He has slightly raised IOP and suspicious discs. Please kindly refer him to the Glaucama service when he returns from his holiday.  Thank you very much for your help.
This 83 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Bilateral primary open angle glaucoma  - Operation: Left Punctoplasty  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 3 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication.   Of note she did have low pressure with sequlae and poor vision, but this has now settled with conservative management. She will wear a shiedd at night and we will continue to monitor the vision and pressure closely. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time at Potters Bar.
This 89 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was HM right and HM left.    She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring Mrs ####### who is about to reach her 90th birthday. She is aware that her vision is not as good as it was, especially for reading, and on examination she has bilateral cataracts in otherwise healthy eyes and vision of 6/24 Right and 6/18 Left with her current glasses.  Following discussion, I have listed her for Right then Left cataract surgery as a day case under local anaesthetic.
This 93 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   She has visually significant cataract and has found her vision deteriorate and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right cataract surgery under LA.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/6 Pinhole  The cataract procedures have gone well. There is a little perifoveal oedema in the left eye which is not worse compared to before the surgery. I have asked her to continue her Maxidex and Acular drops to complete the course. We will see her again in 6 weeks watching for any worsening in the oedema.  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 6 weeks
This 80 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. She found the left eye more traumatic during surgery however this has settled just as well as the right eye and I reassured her of this.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
This 81 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left. Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop od for 7 days. She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 56 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for right phakoemulsification and iol on 15 Oct 2014.  On examination patients blood pressure was 166/80 mmHg.  Please review and alter/commence treatment as indicated and kindly keep us informed of any changes.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
This 87 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis: POAG, bilateral cataracts (R>L) Current treatment: G. Ganfort OD both eyes Examination: IOP right 13mmHg left 12mmHg, ingrowning right lower lid eyelash with corneal punctate keratopathy. Optic nerves stable. Right cataract more advanced than left.  Procedure: Epilation of right lower lid eyelash She has been prescribed Carbomer 0.2% eye gel, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 1 month to allow the right cornea to heal following eyelash irritation. Mrs ######## has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 10 Nov 2014.   She will be seen again in the clinic in 4 months.
This 84 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left retained lens matter in vitreous  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Fragmatome lensectomy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  We have discussed the benefits and risks of surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment at present. The risks of surgery discussed: 1:1000 risk of significant complication which could mean permanent visual loss, 1: 100 risk of requiring additional surgery for various reasons, 1:20 risk of a less serious complication, 1:10 need for a laser procedure to clear posterior capsule clouding within a few years after the surgery.  Also, refractive outcomes were discussed including a need to wear glasses for reading or distance after the surgery.  After  fully addressing all questions and concerns, patient elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: RIGHT phacoemulsification and IOL.
Diagnosis:   Right Eye:  Left Eye:  Treated CNV secondary to CSR    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Left Eye:  6/12  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with  to the left eye. She does not need any injection today / persistent fluid over scar.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
I saw Mrs ############### who is very pleased with her cataract surgery int he right eye and has excellent vision of 6/4 unaided today.   She also reports her blood pressure to be under better control.   She is keen to proceed with surgery to the left eye and so I have placed her on the waiting list for this.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation)               No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Early proliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation)                No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: 6/6 on the right and 6/18 on the left Laser management: not required today  Comments: She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 3 months
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  She has bilateral cataracts. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for LE phaco+iol  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 67 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left. She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 74 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/6  PH right and 6/18 left.    She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Right eye:     Significant Cataract No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Left eye:       Pseudophakia No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: 3/60 on the right and 6/9 on the left  He has been booked for cataract extraction surgery in the right eye.  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed during his post-operative course.
This 79 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses Anterior segment: right: Moderate nuclear cataract left: Moderate nuclear cataract, moderate nuclear cataract Posterior segment: right: Panretinal photocoagulation left: Panretinal photocoagulation He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 68 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for left phakoemulsification and iol on 4 Feb 2014.  May you kindly do an MRSA swab from the above patien's right leg ulcer and fax us the results as soon as possible.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
This 71 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses Left Eye: 6/36 Glasses Anterior segment: right: Posterior chamber IOL left: Moderate nuclear cataract, mild cortical cataract Posterior segment: right: Panretinal photocoagulation left: Macular grid laser She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  Bilateral cataracts. Listed for right phaco +IOL  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 6 months
This 61 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 68 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of silicone oil  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral cataract.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol under LA and will be admitted on 21 Feb 2014.   The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 3/60  right and 6/24-2 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Proliferative diabetic retinopathy 	   Neovascular glaucoma  Previous surgery:  Left phacoemulsfication and insertion of IOL 	           Left Baerveldt tube (12/11/13) 		   Bilateral pan-retinal photocoagulation  Drops: gutt. Cosopt BD (RE&LE) 	gutt. Lumigan OD nocte (LE) 	gutt. dexamethasone 0.1% BD (LE) 	gutt. dexamethasone 0.1% OD (RE)  Findings:  Visual acuity was stable today at RE 6/60 and LE 3/60.  Intraocular pressure was well controlled in the RE at 18 mmHg and uncontrolled in the LE at 32 mmHg.  Tube position was satisfactory.  Plan:  In view of the elevated IOP in the LE we have opted to list Ms Mesher for removal of supramid (from Baerveldt tube) next week (21/01/14).  This will help to better control the IOP in the LE.  In the meantime we have started gutt. Iopidine TDS LE to reduce the IOP.  She is to continue with all other drops.
This 89 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole He has bilateral cataracts but he is still happy with his vision and he is not keen to have the operation at this point. We discussed the risks and benefits of an operation and also the option of doing nothing. He elected not to proceed to an operation. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him.Please refer him back to this clinic when he is not happy with his vision.
Diagnosis: 	 Bilateral granulomatous anterior uveitis Secondary cataract right eye (intumescent, resulting in shallow AC with 340 degree posterior synaechiae) Steroid responder  VA - RE: HM  LE: 6/6 IOP - RE: 23mmHG LE: 15mmHg  Current treatment: G. Maxidex QDS G. Acular QDS G. Timolol 0.25% BD Prednisolone 40mg OD po to start 1 week pre-op supplied.  Ms. Ahmed was reviewed in clinic by Mr ######## She has a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic granulomatous anterior uveitis. Her right eye has progressively developed an intumescent cataract resulting in reduced vision. There is some flare and occasional cells in the AC. A B-scan showed lens enlargement, but no vitreous or retinal abnormality.  Mr ####### feels she requires urgent cataract extraction and I have taken the liberty of booking her on to Mr ######### list on 18th March 2014. It was felt that this is as quiet as the eye will become and we wish to intervene before the development of any acute angle closure glaucoma. She will be operated upon under general anaesthetic and has a small pupil with posterior synaechiae. I have instructed her to commence the Prednisolone tablets on the 11th March 2014.
This 78 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Advanced POAG. Left cataract.  Examination: The visual acuity was CF in right eye;  6/60 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 13 in RE; 12mmHg in LE. Advanced glaucoma R+L.   Impression: list L cataract.  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is g Cosopt bd R+L and g Lumigan nocte R+L.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for post-op.
Thank you very much for referring this 52 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral visually non-significant cataracts  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/12 RE, 6/9 LE (6/5 BE pinhole)  MANAGEMENT: defer surgery until more symptomatic. Discharged - annual optician and diabetic retinopathy screening to continue.
Diagnosis: Her principal diagnosis is Right age related macular degeneration.    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 2/60 Glasses Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses Bilateral end stage macular degeneration Patient severe sight impairment registered This patient was receiving a course of treatment with lucentis injection. She does not need any injection today.  She will be reviewed in 3 months. Mrs ##### continue to have challenges with social services support despite severe sight impairment registration. We will be grateful if she could be assisted with this and any other support required.   The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
This 59 year old woman attended the clinic today.  DIAGNOSIS: bilateral dense cataracts  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/18 RE, 3/60 LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for left cataract surgery in the first instance, with a slightly guarded prognosis.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is Left epiretinal membrane.  Visual acuity left eye 6/36.  He has been listed for left vitrectomy, left epiretinal membrane peel and will be admitted on 8 May 2014.
Diagnosis: 	Aniridia 		Left inferotemporal retinoschisis Vision: 	RE HM LE 6/60 Impression: 	Stable retinoshisis. Plan: 		Discharge from vitreoretinal clinic. Retinal detachment warning given, return SOS.
Thank you very much for referring this 92 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has bilateral nuclear cataracts.  His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he decided not to proceed with surgery as feels managing well with glasses.  We have not arranged to review him routinely, but would be happy to see him again if his symptoms change.
Diagnosis: Left cataract            Right pseudophakia            Bilateral dry AMD  Plan: w/l for left cataract surgery & lens implant
- Diagnosis:  Left pterygium Bilateral ocular hypertension  Visual acuities: Right 6/6 Left 6/6  Mrs ###### attended our clinic today. She was referred from North Middlesex Hospital to consider excision of her left pterygium. She complained of discomfort in her left eye over the past year.  On examination, she had a left bulky pterygium which was not inflamed. Intraocular pressures were noted to be 24 mmHg right and 28mmHg left. She had healthy optic discs.  Risks and benefits of left pterygium excision surgery were discussed, including risk of recurrence. As she was symptomatic and keen on surgery, we have listed her for a left pterygium excision and conjunctival autograft under local anaesthesia. She has also been given an appointment for a visual field test.
This 29 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. Diagnosis:  Iris bombe LE  Bilateral idiopathic intermediate uveitis  Right cataract surgery 27/11/2012  Left cataract - surgery with intra vitreal triamcinolone 5/11/13  Left synechiolysis, surgical iridotomy, IVTA, TPA 7/01/2014    VA RVA 6/12 (6/6 ph), LVA 6/60 (6/12 ph)       Her left intraocular inflammation was relatively stable on clinical examination today, however iris posterior synechiae has developed again causing iris bombe. Right eye showed mild inflammation in anterior chamber. There were no macular oedema on OCT.   She is unfortunately suffering side-effects to her mycophenolate therefore we have reduced the dose 1 gram in the morning and 500mg in the evening. Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) QDS Eye (Right) for 6 weeks Ketorolac 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) for 6 weeks  Alendronic acid 70mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) 1/week PO for 6 weeks  Tropicamide 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 6 weeks. Omaprazole 20mg OD  She is due to undergo a repeat surgical periperal iridectomy to her left eye thus she should increase her prednisolone dose to 40mg OD 4 days leading up to the operation and then for 4 days post operation and then reduce the dose to 30mg until we see her again on 8th April.   I would be grateful if you could kindly arrange a dexa bone scan locally to where she lives and provide us the results when it has been done.
This 44 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Left optic disc drusen - buried.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/6 in right eye; 6/6 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 19 mmHg in RE; 19 mmHg in LE.  Impression:stable  Treatment: Observation only to ensure no progressive changes  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 9 months.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Bilateral cataract RE>LE Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/6 Pinhole  Laser Management: Right Eye: Not Required Left Eye: Not Required  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 4 months
26/01/14 Right Cryotherapy/Scleral Buckle - Macula on RD  04/02/14 Right Vitrectomy/Laser/Oil - PVR Recurrent RD (Fovea-splitting)   As discussed,  many thanks for performing a right 360 degree prophylactic laser at 11.00 on 13/05/14.
This 63 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was  right and  left.  He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol. We discussed the COMPLICATIONS, benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
This 58 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left perforating corneoscleral wound  - Operation: Left Examination under anaesthesia, Left Repair of penetrating injury  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 1 month    then 1 drop(s) qid for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days Moxifloxacin 400mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) od PO for 10 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   RIGHT phakoemulsification and iol
This 74 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/12 on right eye and 6/18 on the left eye.  Diagnosis: Bilateral cataract  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Clinically significant macular oedema(NSC M1A and evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 RE cataract LE pseudophakia  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Glasses Left Eye: 6/5 Unaided  Laser Management: Right Eye: Not Required Left Eye: Not Required  This 56 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. There is residual macula oedema in the right eye albeit improving. He is keen on having cataract operation and I have explained the risks and benefits. I have listed him for right phaco+IOL + IVTA  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 3-4 months
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   Right phacoemulsification and IOL.
Thank you very much for referring this 60 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral cataracts, LE>>RE (left white cataract)  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/9 RE, Counting Fingers LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for left cataract surgery in the first instance, with a slightly guarded prognosis and explained slightly higher than standard risk of intraoperative problems..
This 45 year old man was discharged from hospital today.  - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left cataract surgery and lens implant.
This 63 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  She has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop qid in the Left Eye for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 60 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/9 left.  We have discussed the benefits and risks of surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment at present. The risks of surgery discussed: 1:1000 risk of severe complication which could mean permanent visual loss, 1: 100 risk of requiring additional surgery for various reasons, 1:20 risk of a less serious complication, 1:10 need for a laser procedure to clear capsule opacification within a few years after the surgery, risk of axis shift with a toric IOL.  After  fully addressing all questions and concerns, patient elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phacoemulsification and IOL with a TORIC IOL implant.   Refractive outcomes were discussed including need to wear glasses for reading with a monofocal IOL.
Diagnosis: His principal diagnosis is Right age related macular degeneration.    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/36 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with intravitreal injections. He does not need any injection today.  He will be reviewed in 6 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
This 79 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Ocular Hypertension, bilateral cataracts.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/12 in right eye; 6/9 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 22mmHg in RE; 22mmHg in LE.  Impression: Following discussion today, mr ######## has been listed for Right Cataract surgery under local anaesthetic as day case.   Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is Bimatoprost 0.3mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) for 1 month.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 6 months.
This 86 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  He has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop qid in the Right Eye for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 51 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: perforating scleral wound  - Operation: right removal of foreign body from eye right vitrectomy right suture of laceration of sclera right retinopexy using cryotherapy  He has been prescribed Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Moxifloxacin 400mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) od PO for 10 days.   No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 27 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: retinal vasculitis  - Operation: right injection of drug into vitreous  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 5 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 days time and then in UVCRMW 10/5/2013.
Diagnosis: BE cataract  I saw this gentleman in clinic today with a view to BE cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. He was listed for bilateral sequential phaco, RE first.
This 74 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is left cataract.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 70 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: B/L pseudophakia B/L resolving cystoid macula oedema  RVA 6/9  LVA 6/9  Management: Had OCT performed today which revealed resolving cystoid macula oedema  Reassured and advised to continue only G Maxidex qds BE for another  4 weeks then stop  Outcome: Review 6-8 weeks
This 71 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Left Pseudophakia Right Cataract not keen on surgery at present  RVA 6/9  LVA 6/5  Management: Had removal of Left corneal sutures performed today  G Chloramphenicol 0.5% LE qds 1/52 then stop and G Maxidex qds LE 1/52 then stop  Outcome: Reassured and discharged.  To contact you if she would like to consider Right cataract surgery in the near future for referral please.
This 47 year old man attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic.   Diagnosis :  Right lattice degeneration Left vitreous haemorrhage  RVA: 6/4 cc, LVA: 1/60 cc improving to 6/60 ph IOP RE : 16 mmHg, LE : 19 mmHg  Dilated fundoscopy revealed right lattice degeneration and left vitreous haemorrhage and lattice degeneartion superotemporally. The view was very hazy due to the vitreous haemorrhage. B-SCAN showed posterior vitreous detachment with intragel & rertohyaloid opacities. There was evidence of a retinal tear -11 o'clock and a suspicion of a much smaller second tear -10 o'clock. There was no evidence of retinal detachment.  Referral to the Vitreoretinal Emergency Clinic today.
This 69 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Right pseudophakia Left symptomatic cataract Blepharitis Watery eyes  RVA 6/9  LVA 6/12  Management:  Given Blepharitis leaflet and lid hygiene advised  Listed for Left cataract surgery and implant under LA  Outcome: Listed for Left cataract surgery and implant under LA  If watery eye symptoms persist then will need to be referred to Adnexal service for further evaluation of tear ducts.
This 70 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Operation: right phacoemulsification of cataract with intraocular lens implantation He is very happy with the outcome and extremely keen to have his left eye operated. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis:Right Cataract  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 13/5/13  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 1 week and then BD for 1 week and then OD for 1 week then stop.     VA:  Right: 6/24-1  ph: 6/9 Left:     6/9 IOP: Right:      9  mm/Hg   Left:      10  mm/Hg            Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1.Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged.
This 78 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Left pseudophakia Right symptomatic cataract  RVA 6/12  LVA 6/6   Management: Listed for Right cataract surgery and implant under LA  Outcome: Listed for Right cataract surgery and implant under LA
Thank you very much for referring this 72 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   RE is settling very well after phaco+IOL.  She also has a cataract in her LE and she is very keen to have it operated.  I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 21 Oct 2013.
This 69 year old man attended the clinic for the postoperative routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis :  Right pseudophakia Left cataract  The operated eye is settling down well following uncomplicated cataract surgery. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol under LA.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome fully discussed.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left Cataract   Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 14/6/13   Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex TDS for 5 days and then BD for 5 days and then OD for 5 days then stop.     VA:  Right:  6/9-2         Left:   6/24 ph: 6/12 IOP: Right:    13    mm/Hg Left:  11   mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   She has a cataract in her RE which causes her decreased vision.  I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnoses - Pseudophakia LE - cataract RE - No diabetic retinopathy  I am pleased that he had an excellent outcome after cataract surgery in the left eye. Mr. ######### wants to proceed with cataract surgery in the right eye. We have discussed the risks and benefits and I have obtained the consent. His surgery is scheduled for 13/08/13.  Thank you
This 50 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Injection of gas, Left Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days Tramadol 50mg capsules, 1-2 capsule(s) prn PO for 7 days Paracetamol 500mg tablets, 2 tablet(s) qid PO for 5 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was  6/24 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right Cataract Surgery
Thank you very much for referring this 93 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Visual acuity:left: 6/9 Glasses right: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole She has significant cataract in her RE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 9 Aug 2013.
This 55 year old man was discharged from hospital today.  Diagnosis: blepharochalasis, lower lid retraction Operation: Bilateral blepharoplasty of upper lids, Bilateral lower lid hard palate grafts Prescription: Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in a weeks time.
This 82 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in the left eye and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 82 year old man whom I saw in the clinic   His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataracts.   He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 11 Oct 2013.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.
Diagnosis: RIGHT Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO)  Visual acuity: 0.1 on the right and 0.0 on the left  Comment: I had the pleasure of reviewing this 57 year old gentleman who attended the Accident and Emergency department, following a optician's referral and was referred on to the medical retina clinic. He himself has no visual symptoms.   Examination findings are as below:  Intra-ocular pressure:right: 13 mmHg, left: 15 mmHg  Anterior segment: No iris new vessels  Posterior segment: RIGHT eye - Central retinal vein occlusion involving the macula, swollen disc nasally. No fluid on retinal OCT scanning. No posterior new vessels seen. No RAPD. LEFT eye - No abnormality  Action required by GP:  1) Bloods requested - FBC, U&E, Chol, ESR, Gluc, TFTs (results to be copied to GP for any action if needed - thank you).  2) ECG to kindly be done as part of cardiovascular work-up in view of this event. 3) BP slightly elevated on 2 occasions: 133/93, 159/84 (please reassess as this is the most common underlying risk factor for retinal vein occlusions)    Plan: I have explained that we will need to monitor for complications that can arise from the RIGHT CRVO in the eye clinic and that he needs to see yourself for the above reasons.  Review: 4-6 weeks in the medical retina clinic
Diagnosis:	L cataract 		R pseudophakic 20/08/13 VA:		R: 6/9 ph 6/6	L: 6/36 ph 6/12 Management: Right eye has settled following surgery. Patient has been asked to wean off his eye drops: gt Maxidex twice daily for two weeks.  Patient is keen to proceed with Left cataract surgery. Risks and benefits have been discussed. A surgical date will be arranged for the near future.
This 85 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Bilateral cataract  - Operation: Left Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
This 74 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/36 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol in mid December 2013 after her travelling.
This 62 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/6 left.  He has been prescribed: Hypromellose 0.3% eye drops, 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) for 1 month.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Primary open angle glaucoma; previous left CRVO and previous left vitrectomy and laser for vitreous haemorrhage; right pseudophakia; left cataract  Treatment: Ganfort nocte both eyes; listed for left phaco and IOL under local anaesthetic as day case  Follow-up: After surgery  Mr ######## pressures were 15 right and 20 left.  After a discussion of the risks and benefits (including the possibility that cataract surgery to the left eye may lower the pressure slightly) I have listed him for left cataract surgery.  He has been given a copy of his consent form and a cataract information booklet.
This 84 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is: 1 Bilateral primary open angle glaucoma 2. Bilateral Pseudophakia  She had ALT a long time ago and more recently bilateral SLT in November 2012. Initial intraocular response was good, but it has gone up to 22 each eye today. We discussed further SLT with Miss. Harris and she is not keen on that. We have therefore altered the treatment to: 1. Stop Trusopt and replace with G. Azarga bd 2. Continue G. Lumigan nocte both eyes.  We will see her gain in about 2 months time.
Her principal diagnosis is Right cataract.  I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 25 Feb 2014.
Diagnosis:  Right Eye:  Left Eye :  Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Left Eye:   2/60  She had received  injection Lucentis in the Left eye today. The number of injection for the left eye is 4.  She is prescribed G.Exocin qds for 5 days. She is aware that She should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0)               No macular oedema(NSC M0) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0)                Clinically significant macular oedema(NSC M1A) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Left anterior uveitis  Visual acuity: 6/6 on the right and 6/36 on the left Management: Listed for left Lucentis injection treatment  He has been prescribed Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days.   Comments: He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   Other points: .  He will be reviewed in 8 weeks in Mr ###### clinic (and in injection clinic in meantime)
Principal diagnosis: cataract in the right eye                                  end stage dry AMD R                                  less severe dry AMD L      Ms Klimek's vision today was counting fingers R and 6/18 L. Her macular degeneration remains dry, which is likely to progress slowly. We have given her dietary advice and encouraged her to try to stop smoking, which may delay the progression of the disease. She was seen by Miss Thomas as well, she is keen on right cataract sugery and I put her on waiting list for right cataract extraction with IOL under LA.with guarded prognosis.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  His principal diagnosis is Right posterior subcapsular cataract.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Cataracts R>L  Visual acuity: 6/36 RE; 6/12 LE  Comment: This lady has bilateral cataracts. I have explained the risks of the operation to her and her daughter has interpreted this to her. She is happy to proceed.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right cataract surgery under LA.
This 68 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.  Post operative review tomorrow AM at 08.00 on Sedgwick ward MEH.
Diagnosis: 9/12 post-Pterygium surgery right eye  This 36 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit. He complains of heavy eyes. He has blepharitis and so I have suggested lid hygiene techniques and the use of lubricants.  We are monitoring his pterygia and so I have arranged a review in 9 months.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation)               No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation)                No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: 6/9 on the right and 6/24 on the left Laser management:     Left resolving subfoveal SRF. Thisn accounts for the subjectively improving left central vision. Therefore continue with Trusopt drops. The Haematologist cannot stop low dose systemic Prednisolone. This is unlikely to be a contributory factor.   He will be reviewed in 3 months
This 78 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days Ketorolac 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis  Large vessel vasculitis  Right peripheral ulcerative keratitis  Right herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic ulcer)     Treatment  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) until review  Aciclovir 3% eye ointment, 1 strip bd Eye (Right) for 1 month  Prednisolone 5mg tablets, 45mg od PO tapering as previously instructed  This 83 year old man attended the clinic for a follow up visit. He has stopped azathioprine treatment on the advice of Dr Hogarth, his rheumatologist. Our understanding is that further immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil may be considered in the near future as his blood indices improve.  Nevertheless, his eyes remain quiet with no active keratitis. We have recommended continued topical treatment as detailed above. Review is planned in 1 month but he has been advised to reattend sooner should he develop a red painful eye.
Diagnosis:   Right Eye: right choroidal neovascular membrane (? occult) with Epiretinal membrane.   Left Eye: nonexudative age-related macular degeneration]  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Left Eye:  6/9  This patient was seen in the injection clinic but never underwent injections. He feels his VA is stable. After discussion he decided not not have injections at this stage and would like to be discharged back to the clinic.  He will be reviewed in 8 weeks in your clinic.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/18 left. He has borderline IOP in the left eye 21mmHg and normal IOP in the right 13mmHg. His central corneal thickness is 546 right and 542 left. His optic disc shows possible thinning of left superior rim. This will need to be investigated with a visual field test following cataract extraction surgery.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phaco + IOL under local anaesthesia as a day case.   We will keep you informed on his progress and he will be given a date for the surgery in due course.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: right Cataract             Bilateral Blephritis  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 9/10/13  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex three times a day for 5 days and then twice a day for 5 days and then Once a day for 5 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/12         Left:     6/12+2 ph : 6/12 IOP: Right:     15       mm/Hg   Left:   16               mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan. 1. Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Diagnosis: Right white cataract (no fundal view)  Visual acuity: HM right eye; 6/9 LE  Comment:  This lady has a dense right white cataract. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly. An request for a ocular ultrasound has also been made to rule out a retinal detachment.
This 45 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
I saw this wonderful lady in the clinic today. Visual acuity:left: 6/18 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole,right: 6/9 Unaided, 6/6 Pinhole  Her RE is settling very well after the operation. She also has a significant cataract in her LE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 16 Aug 2013.
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  His principal diagnosis is right posterior subcapsular cataract with Right decompensated exophoria to RDS. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Her principal diagnosis is right posterior subcapsular cataract.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 47 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/18 left.  He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops,1 drop(s) qid for 14 days, then 1 drop tid for two weeks then 1 drop(s) bd for 2 weeks  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 68 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis:	L cataract 		R pseudophakic 18/06/2013 VA:		R: 6/9 ph 6/9	L: 6/36 ph 6/9+ Management: Right eye has settled following surgery. Patient has been asked to wean off her eye drops: gt Maxidex twice daily for two weeks.  Patient is keen to have Left cataract surgery. Risks and benefits have been discussed. Patient is keen to proceed. A surgical date will be arranged for the near future.
This 72 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/36 left.    He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: BE cataract  I saw this lady in clinic today with a view to BE cataract surgery, which was deemed appropriate.  Risks/benefit/alternatives were fully discussed. She was listed for bilateral sequential phaco, LE first.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.  Visual acuity: left: 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole right: 6/18 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole Intra-ocular pressure: right: 14 mmHg left: 16 mmHg  She has been listed for right cataract surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Right phthisis, post trauma Left cataract, with new vessels at pupillary membrane Previous left panuveitis This lady was referred to Mr ##### for consideration of left phacoemulsification and IOL from Prof Lightman's clinic. We have asked her to increase her g.maxidex LE to 2hrly in the left eye in preparation for cataract surgery next week. We arranged intravitreal avastin today for NVI. Left cataract surgery has been booked for 17/7/13.Left eye Ultrasound and pre-operative assessment will take place today.
RVA 6/60 LVA 6/6 Ms Sidat's right eye retina remains attached under oilk with some macula pucker and some flat membrane inferiorly. We performed prophylactic 360 degree barrier laser today. She is scheduled for a right cataract extraction/IOL implant/oil removal and membrane peel under LAS as a daycase in 1 month.
This 74 year old man attended the clinic for the second postoperative routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis :  Right pseudophakia Left cataract  RVA: 6/6 cc, LVA: 6/9 cc IOP RE : 14 mmHg, LE : 16 mmHg  The operated eye is settling down well with mild persistent anterior uveitis following uncomplicated cataract surgery. He has been prescribed G Maxidex 6x/qds/tds/tds/od each 1/52 RE, G Acular qds 6/52 RE.  He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol under LA and will be admitted on 4 Oct 2013.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.  He will be seen in the Cataract Clinic 1 week prior to his cataract surgery LE in order to exclude ongoing anterior uveitis RE.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery. His principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/24 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis:  Right primary endothelial graft failure Right penetrating keratoplasty for corneal ulcer May 2012  Right glaucoma drainage device May 2013 Bilateral advanced glaucoma Bilateral pseudophakia  Vision: R CF; L 6/24 with glasses, 6/18 PH  Unfortunately, despite intensive steroid eyedrops the right endothelial graft remained non-functional. In addition, he has now developed a steroid response of raised intraocular pressure in the right eye.   Since the graft has failed, I have advised him to reduce the steroids quickly over the next 2 weeks. He will be seen by the glaucoma team on the 10/9/2013. We will see him again in 4 weeks to discuss the possibility of a repeat DSAEK.
This 55 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis:  Diabetic retinopathy  Previous left vitrectomy Left pseudophakia  Right significant cataract Right resolving vitreous haemorrhage.   Comment: We will proceed with Right cataract surgery under a local anesthetic on the 20/9/2013.
Mrs ##### has a left full thickness macular hole. She has poor vision (6/6 RE, 3/60 LE).  She has been listed for left vitrectomy, left internal limiting membrane peel, left injection of gas and will be admitted on 24 Oct 2013.
Diagnosis: Fuch's endothelial dystrophy  Mr ######## vision has deteriorated over the past few years, and he has got to the point where surgery is recommended. I am arranging for him to come in for day case left endothelial transplantation combined with cataract extraction and lens implant. He will be sent a date for surgery in the near future. We will keep you posted on his progress.
This 76 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   History: Bilateral macula scarring NIDDM Visual acuity: left: CF Unaided right: 3/60 Unaided Anterior segment: right: Moderate nuclear cataract, posterior subcapsular cataract left: Mild nuclear cataract, posterior subcapsular cataract Intra-ocular pressure: right: 12 mmHg left: 16 mmHg Posterior segment: right: Scarring, poor view,  left: Scarring, poor view,  Clinical management: Listed for Left Cataract Surgery  Conclusion: Long discussion regarding risks and benefits of cataract surgery in a patient with macula scarring. Pt aware of guarded prognosis and risks.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in the right eye and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right phacoemulsification + IOL.
This very pleasant 74 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Left Central retinal vein occlusion with iris neovascularisation  Visual acuity: left: HM Unaided right: 6/5 Unaided  Anterior segment: right: No abnormality left: Fine inferior iris rubeosis. No cells.   Intra-ocular pressure: right: 15 mmHg left: 15 mmHg   Posterior segment: right: No abnormality left: Swollen disc, panretinal photocoagulation, central retinal vein occlusion involving the macula   Clinical management: I performed LEFT fill-in PRP today (3126 x 200microns x 0.03secs x 400-500mw).  We will review in 2 weeks and consider if further laser is required.  In the mean time I would be very grateful for your kind assistance regarding this lady's blood pressure management as she mentioned that her BP is still very high at times on home testing and this is a risk factor for further vein occlusions in the future. Thank you very much.
This lady attended Moorfields Eye Casualty having undergone three surgical procedures to the left eye in India since September 2012. I am told that these were for a combination of glaucoma, cataract and retinal problems although she was unable to provide any written information.   Her visual acuity is 6/6 right and Count Fingers right. The right eye has an occludeable angle, 270 degrees of peripheral anterior synechiae and a patent iridotomy. The left has a displaced intraocular lens causing corneal deconmpensation due to direct trauma from the lens through the iris onto the endothelium.   The intraocular pressures are 18mmHg right and 30 left.   She is likely to need a right cataract extraction eventually but first the IOP in the left needs to be controlled by means of a diode laser which we have scheduled for 24th October at her request. In the meantime she should use;   g Cosopt bd BEs g Latanaprost nocte BEs po Diamox 250 mg bd   Following her diode we will ask Mr ########## team to review her with a view to dealing with her left intraocular lens.
Diagnosis: Righ tsignificant cataract. Right eye:    Stable, treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation)               No macular oedema(NSC M0) Left eye:      Stable, treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation)                No macular oedema(NSC M0) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: 1/60 on the right and 6/36 on the left Laser management: Not Required   Comments: He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   Other points: Awiting right cataract surgery.  He will be reviewed in 6 months
left cataract right cortical cataract Bilateral background diabetic retinopathy  VA BE 6/6  Patient is asymptomatic with the right cataract. She requires no treatment at the present time.   Review 1 year
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses  Left Eye: 2/60 Unaided She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 17 on the right eye. She is prescribed G.Exocin qds for 5 days. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters. She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for operation left phakoemulsification and iol on 29 Nov 2013.  ECG was performed as part of routine Pre-op Assessment, and shows atrial fibrillation. I have enclosed a copy for your records. His blood pressure was 166/95mmHg. I have asked him to make an appointment to see you.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me. Thank you.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/18 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole  She has been listed for left cataract surgery and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is left cataract.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole  He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:  Primary open angle glaucoma (right blind eye secondary to glaucoma?) Bilateral laser-treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy (stable) No macular oedema  Current topical medication to both eyes:  G. Xalatan nocte, G. iopidine 0.5% t.d.s., G. Alphagan b.d., G. Trusopt t.d.s  Visual acuity with correction: right eye no perception of light, left eye 6/9 Intraocular pressures (mmHg): right eye 27, left eye 29 Cup/disc: right 1.0 pale, left 0.7  Diabetes mellitus type 2  Reason for letter: we would like to inform you of this patient who is under your care for glaucoma, patient noticed to have elevated IOPs in retinal clinic today.   We saw this 77-year-old in the medical retinal clinic this afternoon. He was found to have elevated intraocular pressures. I am not sure of his compliance with topical medication. I emphasized the importance of using his drops religiously and I hope the message got through. I took the liberty of adding G. Trusopt t.d.s to his previous treatment (please, let us know if this is agreeable to you). We understand he is due to be seen in your clinic before the end of the year.  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasized.   He will be reviewed in the medical retinal clinic in 6 months.  Please, do not hesitate to contact us if you need further details regarding his case.
This 80 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.    He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right  phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis:  Right eye:  Corneal scars    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Cataract  Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Cataract Pseudoexfoliation syndrome   Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 12 months
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Glasses Left Eye: 6/5 Glasses  She received  Eylea injections in both eyes today.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye, and G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided  He received his Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 2 on the right eye.  He has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. He is aware that he should report to eye casualty if he experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  He will be reviewed in a few days for the fellow eye.
This 49 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.  Posturing instructions: To lie on left hand side at night & 5hrs/day for first week
Thank you very much for referring this 59 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: bilateral phakoemulsification and iol
This 58 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit, post op right vitrectomy and panretinal photocoagulation.   Today on review there is evidence of good laser, no retinal breaks, and she has achieved excellent outcome.  WE had a discussion, the likely cause is likely a combiniation of fine new vessel at the disc + elsewhere from diabetic retinopathy and posterior vitreous detachment. I have reassured her she is doing well and should continue with the current good diabetic control.  The left intragel vitreous haemorrhage has occured twice in three months and her vision is reduced.  The haemorrhage is slow to clear and we feel she would benefit from the same surgery.  She is keen for this and understands the risks and benefits involved. We have listed her for surgery today. She has been listed for left vitrectomy, left laser retinopexy and will be admitted on 14 Jan 2014.
This 57 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas, Left Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 51 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Injection of gas, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 89 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in the Left eye and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 corrected Right right and 6/18 part with a pinhole Left. The Right eye is already pseudophakic and she has bilateral corneal endothelial changes as noted previously.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for Left phakoemulsification and IOL.
Thank you very much for referring this 45 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has been a T2DM since age 24, Insulin for 10years with better control recently. He is currently on statins and has recently improved BP control.He reports intermittent right eye blurring.   Diagnosis: Right eye:    Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  The macular oedema has settlied significantly without treatment but better control of his DM.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses, 6/6+4  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 3 months.
This 87 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/9 on right eye and 6/18 on the left eye.  Diagnosis: Left occult choroidal neovascular membrane  Clinical Management: Information regarding Eylea injections and AMD has been provided today so that Mrs ###### can make an informed decision regarding the injections. She is very anxious about the procedure and sedation has been offered and discussed. The risk of central vision loss if not treatment is given has also been explained.  We have decided to review her in 4 weeks when we will rediscuss treatment options with her. In the mean time we have advised her to present to A+E within 24-48 hours if she noticed any distortion or deterioration in her right eye. An Amler chart has been provided.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/96 Glasses Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  She received her Lucentis injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 6 on the right eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 2 months (has surgery planned in a month).
This 74 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/6 on right eye and 6/9 on the left eye.  The OCT scan showed a normal retinal architecture to the right eye and an epiretinal membrane in the left eye with the accumulation of subretinal fluid and the presence of a stable focal point of suspected occult choroidal neovascularisation as well.  Diagnosis: Left epiretinal membrane, subretinal fluid, suspected occult choroidal neovascularisation.  Clinical Management: Daily monitoring with the AMSLER test. Attendance of the A&E Department on worsening of the symptoms.  We have decided to review her in 3 months with another OCT scan.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  Her principal diagnosis is Right posterior subcapsular cataract. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/12 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 4 months
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 59 year old man.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral posterior subcapsular cataracts  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/6 RE, 6/9 LE   MANAGEMENT: long discussion  regarding risks, benefits, options of doing nothing and refractive outcome. Listed for left cataract surgery in the first instance
This patient was reviewed in the glaucoma clinic today.  Diagnosis: past meningioma excision 2007-no change in visual field  Visual acuity:  RE6/9  LE6/9  Management: observe Review: 6 months
This 81 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/9 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  rightphakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 2 on the right eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R3S and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and evidence of photocoagulation) Right PSCLO Left pseudophakia Diabetes mellitus type 1  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses  Laser Management: Right Eye/Left Eye:Not Required  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   Patient struggling with vision in her right eye and keen for cataract surgery. She has been placed on the waiting list with a guarded prognosis.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is  bilateral epiretinal membranes previous right RD surgery. previous left laser retinopexy  He will be observed in the outpatient clinic for the time being. He will be seen again in the clinic in 6/12
Diagnosis:	Right pseduophakia 		Left cataract 		Posterior Blepharitis  Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today. He has visually significant dense cataract in his left eye and should benefit from surgery. His visual acuity was 6/6 right and HM left.After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phacoemulsification + IOL LA.   He has posterior blepharitis for which he has received advice regarding lid hygiene and a prescription for G.Chloramphenicol to be used three times a day to both eyes for 2 weeks.
This 85 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/24 left.  He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   On examination Mrs #### had mild/moderate cataracts R>L, her vision was R 6/18, L 6/9. She feels her vision is still good and can do all daily tasks and is happy to not be listed for any surgery at the moment.   On examining the fundus her left optic disc seems slightly more suspicious compared to the right so we have referred her to the glaucoma service for a routine visit.  we have discharged her from the cataract service
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. Visual acuity: left: 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole right: 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  He has bilateral cataracts. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for left cataract operation  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:	Bilateral cataracts 		Previous angle closure glaucoma  		Previous bilateral YAG PIs (patent)	   Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract in both eyes  and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phacoemulsification + IOL LA.
This 72 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Examination today reveals increasing right eye cataract from his previous visit in Jan 2013. Visual acuity today was RE 6/60 improving to 6/9 with pinhole and LE 6/12 unaided. There is a history of LE amblyopia. We have discussed the risks and benefits of cataract surgery for the right eye and Mr ######### is keen to proceed. We shall arrange a pre-assessment and surgery date for the right eye in the near future.
This 55 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
This 44 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   His principal diagnosis is L cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol, left iridoplasty (suture) and will be admitted on 13 Nov 2013.   He has been given a very guarded prognosis for this procedure due to the prior injuries to his eyes. However we hope that it will offer him some improvement.
Diagnosis:diabetic maculopathy Right eye:    (6/30) Left eye:     (6/9.5)  Eye:Right injection#1 They will be reviewed in 1 month  Comments: they have been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
Diagnosis:diabetic maculopathy Right eye:    (6/9.5) Left eye:     (6/12)  Eye:bilateral injection#1 They will be reviewed in 1 month  Comments: they have been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
Diagnosis:diabetic maculopathy Right eye:    (6/24) Left eye:     (6/15)  Eye:Right/Left  injection#2/3 They will be reviewed in 1 month  Comments: they have been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
Diagnosis:diabetic maculopathy Right eye:    (6/12) Left eye:     (6/9.5)  Eye:Right injection#1 They will be reviewed in 1 month  Comments: they have been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
Diagnosis:diabetic maculopathy Right eye:    (6/9.5) Left eye:     (6/19)  Eye:Left injection#1 They will be reviewed in 1 month  Comments: they have been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(R0/M0) Left eye:     Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(R0/M0) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Not recordable both eyes    Comments: She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  She will be reviewed in 12 months.  Would you please be kind enough to give us an update of Rita's systemic control.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Bilateral cortical cataract  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/5 Glasses  There is no diabetic retinopathy. We are reviewing him as the screening service are not able to adequately photograph the retina due to the cataract. He is happy with the vision so I would not recommend cataract surgery yet.  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 1 years
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral cataract.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided Binoclar: 6/6 Unaided  She requires no treatment at the present time. She should visit her optician annually for a full eye examination.   I have asked her to return should her symptoms change in a way that is adversely affecting her lifestyle.
This 70 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Prednisolone 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) hourly Eye (Right) for 5 days    then 1 drop(s) 2 hourly for 1 month Acetazolamide 250mg modified release capsules, 1 capsule(s) bd PO for 5 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
GLAUCOMA CLINIC  DIAGNOSIS Advanced glaucoma with inadequate intraocular pressure control  ACUITY Right 6/24, left hand movements  IOP Right 31, left 32 mmHg  MANAGEMENT g Ganfort in the morning to both eyes g Azopt twice daily to both eyes g Iopidine 0.5% three times daily to both eyes  FOLLOW UP Preassessment on Duke Elder Ward, Level 5 Lanesborough Wing, Wednesday 13 November 2013 at 10am. For Right cyclodiode laser under local anaesthetic on 15 November 2013.
Diagnosis: Left neovascular glaucoma secondary to ischaemic CRVO Left Previous treatments with Avastin, PRP and Cyclodiode  History of left bacterial keratitis now resolved               Right laser peripheral iridotomy for iridotrabecular contact Right Moderate Cataract  Bilateral Blepharitis  Visual Acuity: Right 6/18+2   Left PL  Intra-ocular Pressure: Right 16mmHg  Left 10mmHg  Current Ocular Medication: CONTINUE: g. Lumigan to both eyes nocte g. Dexamethasone 0.1 % to Left bd  RESTART: g. Pilocarpine 2% to Right bd  This lovely 80 year old man attended the Glaucoma clinic for a routine follow up visit today. His eye pressures remain stable. On examination today Mr ##### was found to have a very narrow angle present in the right eye. The peripheral iridectomy was clear but I suspect there is narrowing now that the pilocarpine has been stopped. Mr ##### is aware of a deterioration in his vision and after a long discussion, he has now been listed for a right cataract procedure. The cataract surgery will benefit him in more than one way; it will improve his vision, as there is no other pathology affecting his vision present in the eye and also, the angle will be opened preventing an acute angle closure attack. I have restarted Mr ##### on the pilocarpine and would be very grateful if you could please provide all of the above drops on repeat prescription until further notice. Mr ##### has also been started on lid hygiene treatment to reduce/stop the blepharitis. He will be seen again in the clinic in 6-8 weeks (just before his surgery).
Diagnosis:   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses Left Eye: 6/18 Glasses  No injection as stable.  He will be reviewed in 5 weeks or urgently if vision reduced or distorted.
Thank you very much for referring this 51 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/18 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract surgery (LA).
Thank you very much for referring this 51 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/60 right and 6/6 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 67 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/6 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 75 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 2/60 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was HM right (previous CRVO and laser) and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left cataract surgery under local anaesthesia.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today. She has visually significant cataract in the left eye and should benefit from surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant under LA.
This lady has visually significant cataracts in both eyes - more in the left than in the right. We have explained the risks and benefits of cataract surgery - 1 in 1000 risk of loss of vision and 1 in 100 risk of capsule tear. The surgery will take place under local anaesthesia - the left eye first followed by the right eye a week later. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 20 Mar 2014 and the left eye will be in the 13 Mar 2014.
This 80 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas, Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis:R Cataract           L Pseudophakia           B Megalocornea  We have listed him for R Phaco/IOL under LA.
I saw this gentleman in the clinic today. RE is settling very well after the operation.He also has a cataract in his LE. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for LEFT phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 69 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataracts and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left cataract surgery followed by right cataract surgery a month later.
This 89 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   History: Follow up visit, last seen 9/May/ 2013. RX Travaprost nocte   Allergies Beta and Alpha blockers Aspirin  For fields today, Impaired Glucose intolerance HBP RE Hypertensive retinopathy G2 LE Hypertesnive Retinopathy G3 -  investigation non-ischaemic CRVO and Ocular Ischaemic Sd) - doppler carotid has not ben arranged yet Anterior segment: right: Moderate nuclear cataract, mild cortical cataract left: Moderate nuclear cataract, mild cortical cataract Intra-ocular pressure: right: 16 mmHg left: 15 mmHg Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Primary open angle glaucoma Secondary diagnosis: Left Central retinal vein occlusion Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Hypertensive retinopathy Investigation: Field test, seem stable in both eyes Clinical management: Stable  continue with current medication,offered  for cataract surgery - will consider Conclusion: Personal information leaflet provided to patient, cataract She has been prescribed Travoprost 40 micrograms in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) Until review. .
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for right phakoemulsification and iol on 11 Mar 2014.  On examination patients blood pressure was 180/100mmHg.  Please review and alter/commence treatment as indicated and kindly keep us informed of any changes.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
This 81 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today. Diagnosis: Left >Right nuclear cataract. Examination: The visual acuity was 6/12  in right eye; 6/24 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 17 in RE;18  in LE. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 13 May 2014.as well as right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 3 Jun 2014. .
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Proliferative retinopathy, laser treated(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Proliferative retinopathy, laser treated(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Right eye pseudophakia Left eye cataract  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses    He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 6 months time or sooner should he develop any new symptom.
This 69 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has a cataract in her LE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for LE phaco+iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 77 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left neoplasm of orbit  - Operation: Left Anterior orbitotomy - upper lid approach  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip tid Eye (Left) for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. Needs removal of sutures in 1 week.
Thank you very much for referring this 85 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.  His principal diagnosis is Bilateral nuclear cataract.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia            Bilateral Dry Age Related Macula Degeneration, Right>Left  Visual Acuity: RE 6/12+2 - PH: 6/9+3, LE 6/36+1 - PH: 6/24-1  Comments: I reviewed this 76 year old gentleman in Primary Care. He denies any visual problems but was sent by his optician for a YAG Capsulotomy. He himself has not noticed any new vision problems but does noticed a difference between his right and left eye.  On examination, both anterior segments were unremarkable. The right eye had an IOL in situ with a clear posterior capsule. The left eye had a nuclear sclerotic cataract. On fundoscopy, there were drusen at both macula, right>left.  I have explained to Mr. ###### that he has age related macula degernation, right>left. I have also offered to do his left cataract which he has agreed to. He has been listed for a left phaco+IOL insertion on July 1 2014.
Diagnosis: Bilateral cortical cataracts (Right>>Left)  VAR 6/36+1 UA 6/12 PH VAL 6/12-2 UA 6/12 PH  Summary: The gentleman gives a 4-5 year insidious history of bilateral blurred vision (right>left). I note he has previously had a normal FFA & OCT (Sutton Hospital). The OCT repeated today revealed no central IRF/SRF. There is a possibility of an area of right superior retinal thickening seen. However, this would not explain the visual history. The quality of the image was suboptimal secondary to the cortical cataracts.  Plan: Waiting list for right cataract extraction with IOL (22/04/2014) & Review OPD (01/05/2014)
Diagnosis Intermittent left/alternating exotropia  Comment Freddie's family have noticed that his left eye wanders when he is tired.  There is no significant family history; his parents are not short-sighted.  On examination Freddie has very good unaided visual acuity of 0.00 logMAR in both eyes. On cover test he has a latent divergent strabismus (exophoria) when looking at a distance target; with near fixation there is a small intermittent left/alternating divergent squint (exotropia). His stereovision is reduced to 600 seconds of arc; Freddie found the test a bit tricky and this may be a performance issue and get better with repeated testing. Cycloplegic refraction shows Right -0.50/+0.50 x 90, Left -1.00/+0.50 x 90. This is very close to no prescription at all, and as his visual acuity is very good and his control over the squint is very good, Freddie does not need glasses at the moment. On fundoscopy, the optic nerve head and macula are healthy in both eyes.  In summary, Freddie has intermittent exotropia with good control, as his parents only notice it when he is tired. Freddie may become short-sighted in the future, and may benefit for glasses to see the whiteboard at school.  He does not need any treatment for exotropia at the moment. Future visits will continue to monitor his visual acuity, stereovision and controlled binocular acuity as a measure of squint control. Should treatment ever be required, glasses for shortsightedness can improve control. Surgery is a possibility, though the long-term benefits are unclear and often more surgery becomes necessary years after the first procedure.  I have discharged Freddie from follow-up.
Thank you very much for referring this 82 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has bilateral cataracts and bilateral dry AMD. We have discussed in detail the risks and benefits of an operation , the guarded prognosis due to AMD and the option of doing nothing. He is keen to have an operation in the LE. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 17 Mar 2014.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Choroidal rupture  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided  She received her Avastin injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 20 on the left eye.  She is prescribed G.Exocin qds for 5 days. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.
This 69 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left cataract, raised intraocular pressure.  - Operation: Left Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) hourly Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) 2 hourly for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 14 days Chloramphenicol 0.5% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Betamethasone 0.1% eye ointment, 1 strip nocte Eye (Left) for 1 month Dorzolamide 2% with timolol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) for 1 month Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month Acetazolamide 250mg modified release capsules, 1 capsule(s) bd PO for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in clinic tomorrow morning, then again at one week at Ealing. patient should stop Diamox one day prior to next week's review - i.e. stop Diamox on this coming Sunday.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has bilateral cataracts,LE>RE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for LE phaco+iol  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 86 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral posterior subcapsular polar cataract.  Her secondary diagnoses are: bilateral nuclear cataract.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses  The benefits and risks of surgery were fully discussed, but she decided against at this point in time. She feels the cataracts are not adversely affecting her lifestyle  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her. We would be happy to see her again when she is ready to have her cataracts addressed.
Principal diagnosis: Left Choroidal neovascular membrane  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with Lucentis. She does not need any injection today.  She will be reviewed in 4 weeks.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 69 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today. He has alternating exotropia and remembers attending an eye clinic when he was 10 years old however has not had any eye surgery or trauma. He does not recall being informed that he has amblyopia. He does not have any diplopia. He feels that his right vision has deteriorated gradually in the past 1 year and left vision is not as good as it was but is better than the right vision.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left with nuclear sclerosis in both eyes, right worse than left.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phaco + IOL under local anaesthesia. Due to his alternating exotropia he may need subtenon block or he may be able to manage under topical anaesthesia. He will be given an operation date and preoperative assessment date in due course. We will keep you informed on his progress.
This 64 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/6 left.  He has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 2 weeks.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has noted a gradual deterioration in his right visual acuity over the recent months.  RVA 6/12 (6/9 PH), LVA 6/5 He has a right posterior subcapsular cataract. Nil else acute.  He is keen to proceed with cataract surgery. He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol which will be done on 14 Jan 2014.
Thank you very much for referring this 59 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  RIGHT CATARACT SURGERY  We discussed the benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. She understands that there is a higher risk of retinal detachemet and cystoid macular edema in myopic patients.  We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: CF Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  He received his Lucentis injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 22 on the left eye.  He has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. He is aware that he should report to eye casualty if he experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  He will be reviewed in 6 weeks.
Diagnosis: acute anterior uveitis right eye  Visual acuity 6/6 right eye and 6/9 left eye  This lady presented to casualty on 31 October with her first episode of acute anterior uveitis. Mrs ##### is systemically well and was started on the standard course of tapering topical treatment.  On examination today there were no signs of inflammation in either eye. No routine follow up is required but Mrs ##### is aware that acute anterior uveitis may recur. Should she develop a recurrence of her uveitic symptoms then she knows to come back to the casualty department.
Thank you very much for referring this 46 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in the Right eye and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/6 left. Eyes otherwise healthy.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left phakoemulsification cataract extraction and lens implant.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses Left Eye: CF Glasses  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 1 on the right eye. Previously treated with Lucentis.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
This 85 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  As before, she has significant nuclear cataract with vision ta around 6/18 in each eye. Following further discussion with her we have decided to go ahead with surgery now, Right eye first and then the Left, and have listed her accordingly.
Diagnosis: Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral myopic macular degeneration.    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/15 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with lucentis in the left eye . She does not need any injection today.  She will be reviewed in 3 months.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
This 80 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/18 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for operation left vitrectomy, left delamination on 15 Apr 2014.  ECG was performed as part of routine Pre-op Assessment. I have enclosed a copy for your records.  Would you please also fax to me copies of her Cardiac investigations, according to the patient in 2012/13 and any reports these may have generated.   Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
This 72 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/9 left.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This gentleman is complaining of left-sided epiphora for the last 15 months. He has previously been treated for bilateral blepharitis, however, this has not helped to improve his epiphora symptoms. A recent dacryoscintigraphy suggests functional holdup at the level of the punctum. The right lacrimal system is fully patent.  We have offered him left dacryocystorhinostomy surgery and he is keen to be involved in the dacryocystorhinostomy trial. We plan to provide him all the relevant trial paperwork in due course as well as a date for future dacryocystorhinostomy surgery under general anaesthetic in the future.
Thank you very much for referring this 82 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was HM right and PL left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract surgery under local anaesthetic.
Thank you very much for referring this 46 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Right hypermature cataract.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 44 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/5 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract extraction (LA).
Thank you very much for referring this 88 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   His principal diagnosis is Bilateral congenital cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 76 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/18 left.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  L phakoemulsification and iol.
This 36 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left perforating scleral wound  - Operation: Left Removal of intraocular foreign body, Left Examination under anaesthesia  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today as she is having eye operation of left phakoemulsification and iol. Surgery date will still to be arranged. However,an ECG was performed as part of routine Pre-op Assessment and  there is an abnormality on ECG. I have enclosed a copy for your records.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting to pre-op assessment.
Thank you very much for referring this 44 year old woman who I saw in Medical Retinal Service today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided, -1 unaided  Left Eye: 6/5 Unaided, -2 unaided  Diagnosis: Bilateral retinal dystrophy  Clinical Management: The patient was noted to have changes in her eyes about ten years ago investigated at Western eye hospital. Patient is not aware of the details of the investigations. Recently she has been treated for anterior scleritis which has resolved.There is no history of distortion or blurring of vision or problems with night vision. On evaluation she was noticed to have dystrophic changes in the macula of both eyes. No fluid or haemorrhages were seen. I am arranging autofluorescence imaging to be done for her at Moorfields city road. We will review her with the results in 2 months time.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was  6/9 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   RE cataract extraction
This 51 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/12 left.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Left eye cataract surgery.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis:Left Cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 28/4/14  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/ 9+2                    Left:             6/18 ph: 6/9 IOP: Right:      16      mm/Hg   Left:         17         mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Her principal diagnosis is Right mixed type cataract.  I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her.   She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:Mild NPDR Right eye: R1 M0   (NSC ) (NSC ) Left eye: R1 M1     (NSC ) (NSC ) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  Conclusion: OCT RE No DMO(281microns)                   LE CSMO (291microns) The patient CMT was decrease from lat time >She will be reviewed in 3 months.If the CMT is increased she will do a FA consideration for laser treatment.  The patient was booked for the cataract syrgery for the RE 01/07/14   She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 3 months
Thank you very much for referring this 46 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today with Miss Wickham.  RVA 6/12 LVA 6/60  Her principal diagnosis is Left macular hole.   She has been listed for left vitrectomy, left internal limiting membrane peel, left injection of gas and will be admitted on 31 Jul 2014.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today. He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery. His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.  In addition to his bilateral cataracts his optic nerves have changes suspicious of glaucoma.  Visual field analysis has been requested.   Mr. ####### believes he got grit in his right eye 2-3 days ago. On examination today he had a corneal abrasion in the right eye. He has been prescribed H Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip qid Eye (Right) for 7 days for the abrasion.
Visual acuity: Right Eye: 1/60 Unaided Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/6 Glasses   Diagnosis:  Right central retinal vein occlusion.- Ischemic              PRP X 3       This 74 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  On examination today some of  right eye hemorrhages have settled and there are  some areas with retinal  ischemia where laser reaction was not evident therefore I have performed further fill in PRP to ischemic areas and we will review him in clinic in 6-8 weeks time. He has been explained the guarded prognosis of condition.
Thank you very much for referring this 6 month old boy whom I saw in the clinic today because of a droopy eye left eye lid.  Diagnosis: mild congenital ptosis left eye.  On examination visual acuity was normal for age. The ocular motility was normal and eye alignment was straight. The left eye lid droops 2 mm and levator function is moderate. Pupils are clear. Fundus exam was unremarkable.  We will keep William under regular review.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/6 left.  We have discussed the benefits and risks of surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment at present. The risks of surgery discussed: 1:1000 risk of significant complication which could mean permanent visual loss, 1: 100 risk of requiring additional surgery for various reasons, 1:20 risk of a less serious complication, 1:10 need for a laser procedure to clear posterior capsule clouding within a few years after the surgery.  Guarded prognosis due to possible right amblyopia was discussed.  Also, alternative procedures (multifocal IOL not available on NHS) and refractive outcomes were discussed including a need to wear glasses for reading or astigmatic correction for distance after the surgery.  After  fully addressing all questions and concerns, Mr. ######### elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: RIGHT phacoemulsification and IOL.
Thank you very much for referring this 9 year old boy whom I saw in the clinic today because of possible decompensating eye alignment with his glasses.   On examination visual acuity in the right eye was 0.00 logMAR and 0.00 logMAR in the left eye. Near vision was N5. There was an intermittent exotropia with good control. Cycloplegic refraction measured RE +3/-0.25x20 and LE +3.25/-0.25x20. Fundus exam was normal.  As Thomas has no complaints of headaches nor problems when reading, we advised him not to wear his glasses. He has an exotropia together with mild hypermetropia; wearing the glasses might decompensate the current control of the exotropia.  We have referred him back to his local opticians for future follow-up.
This patient was reviewed in the glaucoma clinic today.  Diagnosis: cataract right eye past retinal tear+vitreous haemorrhage, right eye-vitrectomy cryo gas 12/2013  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole  Intraocular pressure: RE16  LE15  Management: listed for right cataract surgery  this patient has a symptomatic right cataract and having discussed the risks and benefits, we have offered right cataract surgery on 3/10/14.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant right cataract and should benefit from surgery.   The left eye is pseudophakic.  There is no significant posterior capsular opacification and YAG laser is not indicated currently.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phacoemulsification cataract extraction and lens implant.
Diagnosis Plateau configuration with irido-trabecular contact right eye   VA:  R 6/9 L 6/9    IOP: R 29 L 19mmHg    Progress: This patient has irido-trabecular contact in 270 degrees in the right eye and there is elevated pressure and field loss in this eye. We will schedule lens extraction for this patient very soon but in the meantime we have prescribed g. Pilocarpine 2% qds and g. Cosopt bd to the right eye.   Review 4 weeks
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is left macular hole.  RVA 6/12. LVA 6/36.  Previous right macular hole surgery and pseudophakia.  This patient has worsening blurred vision and distortion in the left eye. There is a full-thickness macular hole present. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left vitrectomy, left internal limiting membrane peel, left injection of gas and will be admitted on 18 Mar 2015, under LA. She appreciates that the final visual prognosis is guarded.
Diagnosis:  Right central serous retinopathy (CSR)  Right choroidal naevus  Recent diagnosis bony metastases - presumed prostate primary - under investigation Previous diagnosis prostate cancer - 2009 , 2013 - radiotherapy Previous lobectomy lung carcinoma 1999    Visual acuity: Right 6/60 pinhole 6/12 ; Left 6/12 pinhoe 6/6 Intraocular pressure normal both eyes  Retinal imaging studies today: OCT - persistent subretinal fluid Angiography - fluorescein and indocyanine green - no evidence of ocular metastases; right central serous retinopathy with similar origin of leak as in 2014 B scan ultrasound right eye - no evidence of mass lesion right eye; macular naevus flat  Comment; I reviewed Mr ####### in the medical retina service today. The right macular naevus remains stable. There is persistent right subretinal fluid. Mr ####### had undergone a previous course of intravitreal Lucentis treatment for a presumed occult subretinal neovascularisation secondary to age-related macular degeneration. This did not improve the subretinal fluid.  We have discussed the various treatment options for CSR (avoiding exogenous cortiosteroids; considering high endogenous steroids - Cushing's disease is rare in this type of presentation; photodynamic therapy - this therapy has not been funded by CCGs for the last 2 years for patients at Moorfields; oral eplerenone for a 3 months course - recent small case series published; focal argon laser to the source of leak).  We have opted for a focal argon laser treatment to the right eye, which was performed today. We will review him in clinic within 8 weeks. I would be very grateful for an update on his medical conditions and treatment plan as these become better formulated after his planned investigations. Many thanks.
This 70 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 67 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Injection of gas, Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Her principal diagnosis is Right choroidal neovascular membrane.    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with right intravitreal injections.Retina image scans new subretinal fluid and loss of more than 10 letters. She has been booked for re-loading injections right eye.  She will be reviewed in 2 weeks with the plan to re-loading injections.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Diagnosis: His principal diagnosis is Right age related macular degeneration.    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 2/60 Unaided  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with right intravitreal injections. He does not need any injection today.  He will be reviewed in 3 months.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Thank you very much for referring this 82 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
This patient attended for their routine follow up appointment in the early keratoconus monitoring clinic having been referred from their local hospital who found their condition to be progressing in the right eye.   Best corrected visual acuity was measured as: RE: 6/38 LE: 6/7.6-  We have discussed the risks and benefits of corneal cross-linking and have listed her to have the treatment in her right eye.
This patient attended for their appointment in the early keratoconus monitoring clinic where examination and corneal topography show signs keratoconus in both eyes.  Best corrected visual acuity was measured as: RE: 6/5 LE: 6/9  We have discussed the risks and benefits of corneal cross-linking and have listed this patient to have the treatment in the left eye.
Diagnosis:  Keratoconus (Right > Left)      This patient attended for their routine follow up appointment in the early keratoconus monitoring clinic where examination and corneal topography show signs of progression of keratoconus in the right left eye both eyes.  Best corrected visual acuity was measured as: RE: 6/6 LE: 6/19-  We have discussed the risks and benefits of corneal cross-linking and have listed this patient to have the treatment in his left eye.
This 83 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/36 on right eye and 1/60 on the left eye.  Anterior segment: right: Posterior chamber IOL Nil subtarsal left: Moderate nuclear cataract  Posterior segment: right: CNV- IT RIP left: CNV - scar Clinical Management: Observe RE  LE stable.cataract left eye - discussed surgery today Needs Botox - seeing JA Needs topical lubricants. She has been prescribed Carmellose sodium 0.5% with glycerine 0.9% eye drops, 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) Until review.   We have decided to review her in 3 months.
This 54 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right phakoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided   She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 6/day Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) 5/day for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   Left phakoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  With kind regards,
This 85 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.   He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole   He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days Hypromellose 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) Until review.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
The above patient has had cataract surgery in the left eye in the past. The right eye has a significant cataract and is symptomatic with this.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  After discussing risks and benefits of surgery, I have placed him on my waiting list for RIGHT cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthesia.
BCVA: 6/18 R, 6/12 L  This 87 year old woman with a L central retinal vein occlusion was reviewed in the Medical Retina Service today. There are no signs of neovascularisation at this stage and the left cystoid macular oedema has responded well to the 6th Eylea intravitreal injection which was done one month ago. Retinal vein occlusions are known to be associated with hypertension, elevated cholesterol and diabetes. I have asked her to have these factors reviewed with you in the next few weeks.  She has a right cataract and we discussed the risks and likely benefits of cataract surgery and provided a leaflet on this. She will be sent a date for right cataract surgery and pre-assessment. We plan to review her in 6 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 58 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Anterior segment: right: Mild nuclear cataract left: Moderate nuclear cataract  Posterior segment: right: No abnormality left: No abnormality  Risks/ benefits/ option to do nothing discussed with the patient. Patient keen on LE phaco + IOL under LA. Patient wishes to aim to emmetropia. Explained to the patient that he will need glasses for reading and possibly for distance.  He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation associated with Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided  She received her Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 6 on the right eye.  She has been given G. Chloramphenicol 0.5% once only to the right eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 8 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant left cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Branch retinal vein occlusion (2012) with neovascularisation./ Laser/CMO-->Ozurdex Right Vitreous Haemorrhage (02/09/2015) confirmed no DR on B-scan  Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: HM Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  Management plan:To monitor at present.                 Booked for repeat b-scan   He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 2 months
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   Diagnosis : Bilateral cataracts R>L Narrow anterior chamber angles  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol to be followe by left eye at a later date
This 58 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 2/60 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 89 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis:Left Secondary Ocular Hypertension with Trauma  Examination: Visual acuity:Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 PH - Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 PH The intraocular pressure measured 22 mmHg in RE and 21 mmHg in LE.  Clinical management: Stable  continue with current medication, responded well to xalatan - start hylotears prn  The treatment that has been prescribed : Latanoprost 0.005% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Left) Until review Sodium hyaluronate 0.1% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) Until review.  A follow up appointment has been made for 6 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 73 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   left phakoemulsification and iol
This 76 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Injection of gas, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 77 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Her principal diagnosis is Right cataract.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.  She will be reviewed in
This 26 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Scleral buckle, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant, symptomatic cataract in the left eye and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol under LA. Target refraction is emmetropia.
Thank you very much for referring this 83 year old woman who I saw in Medical Retinal Service today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/60 Pinhole Left Eye: 2/60 Unaided  Diagnosis:  1) right moderate nuclear sclerosis 2) left brunescent nuclear sclerosis and posterior subcapsular cataract 3) Right eye age related macular degeneration and hazy fundus view in the left eye.   We have discussed the benefits and risks of cataract surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment.  Benefits of surgery  good chance of improving vision.  Risks - 1 in 1000 severe permanent visual loss. 1 in 100 of other problems which can delay recovery/require another operation.   Also, we have discussed today that after surgery, glasses might be needed for reading and/or distance vision.  Patient elected to proceed with surgery and have been listed for LEFT phacoemulsification and IOL implant.
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral cataract.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: Primary open angle glaucoma Thick cornea Bilateral cataracts Posterior blepharitis  Mrs ########### was referred by her optician with raised pressure in the left eye which was asymptomatic. Today intraocular pressure was 22mmHg right and 32mmHg left. Both angles were open. Corneal thickness was 607um right and 600um left. There was moderate bilateral cataracts. Both discs appeared glaucomatous (left greater than right).  I have explained the diagnosis and provided a leaflet.  Treatment: Monopost at night to both eyes (preservative free as patient has blepharitis)- to continue  Followup: 2 months
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she decided not to proceed with surgery. We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if she would like to proceed with surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/4 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right cataract surgery under local anaesthetic.
This 54 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   His principal diagnosis is Bilateral anterior uveitis  Bilateral symptomatic cataracts  Visual acuity R 6/9 left 6/6  medication: nil  This man has been treated for bilateral anterior uveitis. He has been off all treatment for 2 months and the eyes are quiet.   He is very sympmtomatic from his cataracts. He works in sports and is struggling with this. He has bilateral seclusio pupillae also (normal IOP)  He was seen by Miss Thomas today who suggests that cataract surgery is now warranted. The particular risks and benefits in his case were discussed with him, including risk of post op flare of uveitis, macular oedema and permanant pupil dilation. He is keen to go ahead.  Miss Thomas has suggested the surgery is done my Mr ######## who is an expert in cataract surgery in uveitis.
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/36 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 56 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   History: New referral to cataract service, GOS18 referral with cataracts. Consultation through interpreter. Symptomatic. No amblyopia, previously good VA both eyes. Low Myope. Type 2 DM. BP.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses  Refraction: right: -2.00/-0.75 @ 130 Optometrist left: -2.50/-1.75 @ 165 Optometrist  Conclusion: Booked for first eye, RE phaco, target emmetropia, LE to follow
This 11 year old boy attended the clinic for a follow up visit. The stromal infiltrate continues to consolidate, there is no surrounding stromal infiltrate. There is also no intraocular inflammation. I have recommended reducing the topical treatment further, to G Levofloxacin and G Dexamethasone both twice daily for one week, then once daily for one week, and we will review Benjamin in two weeks. His visual acuity is still reduced at 0.4 logMAR in the right eye, and this may be a permanent reduction. We will carry out a refraction at his next visit.
Diagnosis: Right non clearing vitreous haemorrhage  Possibly secondary to radiation retinopathy  Vision: Right hand movements Left 6/5  Plan: Patient has been listed for right eye vitrectomy under local anaesthetic.    This gentleman has been under the care of Mr ####### at Maidstone for the above diagnosis.  He then presented to Moorfields A&E as he was concerned about a lack of visual improvement.  We have not been able to visualise his retina due to the dense vitreous haemorrhage, but ultrasound scan does confirm that it is flat.  Mr #### has asked for his care to be transferred to Moorfields - following discussion with my Consultant Mr ##### we have listed him for the above operation and advised Mr #### to cancel his appointments at Maidstone.  I have explained that there is a somewhat guarded prognosis as we do not know what state the underlying macula is in.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was HM right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 90 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided Intra-ocular pressure: right: 14 mmHg left: 15 mmHg Today she is stable both on examination and on scans.  I am pleased to report that she is recovering well from the left eyes cataract surgery.  She has significant cataract in her right eye. She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
The above patient has had recent cataract surgery (Right Phakoemulsification and IOL) and has had an excellent result. Today her vision was recorded as:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: CF Unaided, 6/24 Pinhole  The operated eye looks satisfactory, She has already stopped her post-operative medications.  The fellow eye has a significant cataract and she is keen to have this treated. She has been placed on the waiting list for left phakoemulsification and iol under local anaesthesia.
RVA 6/5. LVA 1/60.  His principal diagnosis is Left aphakia. He has been listed for left insertion of iol and will be admitted on 2 Apr 2015, either sulcus positioned or scleral-fixated.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral nuclear cataract. She also has macular degeneration.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL and an admission date will be arranged shortly. Although this will improve her vision the final outcome will still be limited by her macualar disease
Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery, although the prognosis for the left eye is guarded due to amblyopia and pigment epithelium changes.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/36 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/5 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  His principal diagnosis is Left posterior subcapsular cataract.   He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 3/3/15.
This patient was seen today in the paediatric external eye disease clinic  - Diagnosis: Left > right keratoconus  - Investigations: The pentacam topography demonstrates coninued progression in the left eye.   - Medications prescribed:   - On-going Care Plan: The patient has been listed for left corneal cross linking under local anaesthesia  - GP Action: None   - Patient advice: The family will benefit from teaching how to instil eyedrops, as they are a little worried about being able to do this, during the ward admission which our nurses could undertake on the day.
Diagnosis: Right eye: Non proliferative diabetic retinopathy (R1), no maculopathy (M0), No phtocoagulation (P0) Left eye:  Non proliferative diabetic retinopathy (R1), maculopathy (M1), No phtocoagulation (P0)     Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 4 months
Thank you very much for referring this 69 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 1/60 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol with guarded prognosis, prev macular hole surgery
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  Principal diagnosis: Right Posterior capsule opacification Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia   He had visually significant posterior capsular thickening and should benefit from YAG laser capsulotomy.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of this treatment he elected to proceed with YAG laser capsulotomy, which was performed as an outpatient.  He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days.  We have not arranged to review him routinely, but would be happy to see him again if any further problems arose.
This 29 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Bilateral keratoconus  - Operation: Left Injection into anterior chamber  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 weeks time.
This 94 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Principal diagnosis: Left Nuclear cataract Secondary diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Right Steroid-induced glaucoma residual stage Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided   He has been prescribed G Timolol 0.25% BD Right Eye only He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly. He is on a reducing dose of topical medication.
Thank you very much for referring this 55 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
This 62 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis  - Operation: Left Phakoemulsification and IOL               Post -op Uveitis  Medication : G maxidex 0.1 % BD-4/7 ,OD -4/7  Review : Discharge. Comment : This lady was today reviewed in the cataract clinic for a post-operative visit.The left eye looks stable
This 70 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 14 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus  Right posterior vitreous detachment.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses Intra-ocular pressure: right: 20 mmHg left: 18 mmHg  Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has been complaining of floaters in the right eye for the past 2 months.On examination today she has quiet bilateral pseudophakia with normal intraocular pressure.Dilated fundoscopy revealed no evidence of Diabetic Retinopathy and right PVD with Wiess ring visible.There were no evidence of retinal tears or holes. She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her from the clinic.
This 23 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left chalazion - upper lid  - Operation: Right Incision and curettage of cyst  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. No follow up is required. Daily hot flannel and lid massage will help prevent recurrence.
Miss Truong was seen in the medical retinal clinic today. Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Bilateral cataracts Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/5 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 3 months.
This 92 year old man was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   His Visual acuity was 6/24 on right eye and 6/24 on the left eye.  Diagnosis: Right age related macular degeneration -stable no change in anatomical appearance since 2012  He was offered registeration as sight impaired which he has declined for the present time No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him but I have arranged a low visual aid appointment
This 54 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.  - Diagnosis: Left proliferative vitreoretinopathy  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Injection of silicone oil, Left Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 14 days Review in 2 weeks time.
This 28 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right pterygium  - Operation: Right Pterygium excision & conj auto-grft  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.  History: Age 75, Afro caribbean lady, driver, non-smoker, retired, referred by A&E for OHT.  She has been referred to the glaucoma clinic by our A&E. She attended A&E of Moorfields on 29 Dec 2014, after a referral by Barbados Ophthamologist( Nigel Barker), with uncotrolled high intraocular pressure POH: Raised IOP seen ophthalmologist in Barbados in 2005 and was prescribed g. Timoptic 0.5% and then switched to g. Xalantan nocte BE and was using g. Glucotensil (g. Pilocarpine 2.5%/Timolol 0.5%) BD BE, stopped drop 1 week ago as advised. She was seen by ophthalmologist in London privately after referral by optician and no concern was found and she was discharged . No eye injury, no eye Sx Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole R)IOP: 30 mm Hg L)IOP: 30 mm Hg Gonioscopy showed narrow angles There was bilateral cataract Healthy optic discs.  She has bee started on Pilocarpine 2% tds eye drops tds BE.  She will be seen again in the clinic soon.
Diagnosis: Right eye: Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:       Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Clinically significant macular oedema(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses               Left Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole  Injection Management: Left Eye: Treatment: Lucentis Diagnosis: Macular retinal oedema associated with Diabetic macular oedema  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 1 month.
This 59 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Cataract Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Low tension glaucoma.  Examination: Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided   The intraocular pressure measured 13 mmHg in RE and 14 mmHg in LE.  Impression: Visual fields stable since Jan '15 - so doing well on current treatment  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed : Travoprost 40 micrograms in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) until review Brimonidine 0.2% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) until review  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 4 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis Bilateral cataracts Bilateral ocular hypertension   Visin RE 6/18 gl, 6/12 pinhole, LE 6/9 gl, 6/6 pinhole  It's  a pleasure to see Mr ########## in his annual glaucoma check up. He is using travatan nocte both eyes and pressures are 18mmHg R, 22mmHg L (CCT  R 566, L 44 microns) with healthy discs and essentially non glaucomatous fields. He is troubled by the blurry vision in the right eye caused by his cataract. We have therefore listed him for right cataract extraction & lens implant under local anaesthesia. We will see him again in 9-10 months for a glaucoma check-up.
DIAGNOSIS: 1. Left full thickness macular hole (781 microns) 2. Right vitreomacular traction 3. Bilateral early nuclear sclerotic cataracts 4. Bronchiectasis  VISUAL ACUITIES: Right eye: 6/12 (6/9 pinhole) Left eye: 3/60 (6/60 pinhole)  CURRENT OPHTHALMIC TREATMENT: Nil  NEXT APPOINTMENT: Listed for left vitrectomy, ILM peel and gas to repair macular hole.  I have explained that there is approximately a 75% chance of successfully closing the hole.  Risks of surgery include cataract, infection, bleeding, and worse vision.
This 79 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole     She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Cataract - information about surgery.   Would like to consider the options Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 12 months
Mrs ##### has an excellent result from recent left cataract surgery. Her visual acuity is right 6/24, left 6/9.  She has a significant cataract in her right eye and is keen to have this removed. Therefore I have listed her for right phacoemulsification and IOL insertion under local anaesthesia.
Thank you very much for referring this 57 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. Her principal diagnosis is  Right cataract. Left pseudophakia.  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 85 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery, althought prognosis is guarded due to amblyopia.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/24 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
This 73 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Congenital blue dot cataract Further Findings: Glaucoma suspect - slight suspicious appearance of left optic disc  Examination: Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole   The intraocular pressure measured 12 mmHg in RE and 14 mmHg in LE.  Impression: Symptomatic cataracts affecting fitness to drive  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed : listed for cataract surgery - right eye.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for this.
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and6/12  left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:Right  phakoemulsification and iol,                     Of note she has a dense right epiretinal membrane in the right eye which limits the prognosis,She also understands that it might cause worsening of her Erm ,and she is happy ot go ahead with the surgery.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Early cataracts  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 12 months
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 60 year old woman whom I saw in the casualty clinic today.   - Diagnosis: Giant cell arteritis right side with Eye involvement (VF-defect).  - Investigations: VF was done today,   - Medications prescribed: to-Carry on Puls Pednisolone therapy 500mg daily for three days, which A&E team in St georges has already started yeaterday, and today morning. to be reduced after that and switch to oral Prednisolone as per Rheumatologist's advise.   - On-going Care Plan: I will be very grateful if you could kindly see her in your neuro-ophthalmology clinic with new visual field to re-evaluate her situation , I have discharged her from the casualty clinic.
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/36 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you for attending the Glaucoma Service. I am happy to report that your eyes are stable. principal diagnosis is Bilateral glaucoma suspect. For your information, our findings were:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/5 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  IOP (eye pressures) : 17 mmHg on the right, and 18 mmHg on the left  Optic nerves:   Both eyes  stable  Visual fields:  Both eyes stable We shall review you again in 6 months  A copy of this letter has been sent to your GP, so no further action from yourself is required.  Please accept this unsigned to avoid delay.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has a visually significant cataract in his right eye and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   right phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided   Mr ##### has symptomatic cataract today - I have listed and consented for R phaco IOL. His diabetic eye disease in stable, with a dry OCT. We will aim for emmetropia.
Thank you very much for referring this 59 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for left cataract extraction.
Thank you very much for referring this 88 year old woman who I saw in Medical Retinal Service today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided  Diagnosis: Bilateral exudative age-related macular degeneration           History of previous bilateral ivi Lucentis           RE x 21 , LE x 9 Lucentis (last 2012)          Left active CNVM with Subretinal haem and SRF  Clinical Management:  Patient underwent FFA, ICG,spectral OCT , results consistent with active CNVM. Booked for Left Eylea   Injection Management: Left Eye: Treatment: Eylea Diagnosis: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation associated with Age related macular degeneration  We have decided to review her in 6 months.
This 71 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole   She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 77 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is glaucoma suspect on Travoprost nocte to both eyes and bilateral cataracts with left posterior subcapsular opacity.  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
I saw this 35 year old man today to review his Left macular branch retinal vein occlusion. Everything is stable and no treatment is required. Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided               Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided Provided his blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar remain well controlled the risk of a recurrent vein occlusion is very low. his homocysteine level was slightly elevated so I have repeated it and will forward the result to you. BP today 106/68  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him from the clinic.
This 70 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses   He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 59 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided Left Eye: CF Unaided  This lady with a history of learning disability was reviewed in the Medical Retina Service today. There is no evidence of diabetic retinopathy or maculopathy in the right eye. Nonetheless, the view of the left fundus is very restricted because of her mature cataract. This lady would benefit from a LE Phaco + IOL. Her sister has signed a consent form as next of kin and an admission form has been completed. This procedure will be done as a day case with general anesthesia.  We ll keep you posted on how she is getting on.
Thank you very much for referring this 89 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis:  Bilateral cataracts (L>R) Previous left vitrectomy Age related macular degeneration Low platelet level  Mrs ###### was reviewed in clinic today. She has noticed a gradual reduction ion her left visual acuity. Examination today shows a significant degree of cataract in the left eye. Fundal examination showed extensive macular RPE changes but with no evidence of active choroidal neovascularisation. After a long discussion regarding the risks and benefits of surgery, I have listed her to undergo left cataract extraction under topical anaesthesia and given her a guarded prognosis. She is aware that she needs to be assessed by her haematologist and to have a routine blood test a week before the operation.
This 63 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/6 Glasses Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia    She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Thank you very much for referring this 75 year old woman who I saw in Medical Retinal Service today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  Diagnosis: Left nuclear sclerotic cataract  Clinical Management: I have booked her for left cataract surgery.  There was no evidence of an old retinal vein occlusion. Cataract management: at satellite, target post-op refraction: 0.00, refractive correction discussed with patient, suitable for Fellow (unsupervised)
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Myopia  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  She received  her Lucentis injection to the right eye today. The number of injections is now 2 in the right eye.  She has been given G. Chloramphenicol 0.5% once only to the right eye.  She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
Thank you very much for referring this 57 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/36 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
This 50 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral low tension glaucoma.  Examination: Visual acuity:Right Eye: 6/4 Glasses - Left Eye: 6/4 Glasses   The intraocular pressure measured 12 mmHg in RE and 10 mmHg in LE.  Clinical management: Stable  continue with current medication,    She has been prescribed Bimatoprost 0.3mg in 1mL single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Both) Until review.   Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 6 months months.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/60 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right phakoemulsification and iol and right limbal relaxing incision.
This 57 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided  He received his Eylea injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 1 on the right eye.  He has been given G. Chloramphenicol 0.5% once only to the right eye. He is aware that he should report to eye casualty if he experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  He will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
Diagnosis:L Cataract  We have listed him for L phaco/IOL under LA(guarded prognosis)
Diagnosis: Right eye previous cataract surgery Right eye posterior capsule opacification Right eye YAG laser capsulotomy performed today. Right eye previous branch retinal vein occlusion, vitrectomy for vitreous haemorrhage Left visually significant cataract Visual acuities: 6/18 right eye, 3/60 left eye  He has been prescribed Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days.   John has right eye posterior capsule opacification and underwent routine right eye YAG laser capsulotomy following discussion of the risks vs benefits of YAG capsulotomy. He has a left visually significant cataract and has been listed for left phacoemulsification & IOL implantation cataract surgery. He has been given a copy of the signed consent form and the cataract information booklet. We will keep you updated.
This 61 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Her principal diagnosis is bilateral nuclear cataract.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis: 1. Dense Posterior Subcapsular cataract (PSCC) R.E. 2. Mild PSCC L.E.  This gentleman says his R.E has gradually deteriorated over the last 1 year. He denies any history of ocular trauma nor any steroid use in past. He is not a diabetic.  I have explained the risks and benefits of R phacoemulsification and Intra-ocular lens implant surgery and the guarded prognosis in view of the dense cataract and though the R retina is flat there is no detailed view of R disc nor macula. Patient understands and wishes to proceed.  He is keen for the surgery to be done as soon as possible, the earliest date we have is the 13th January 2015, and he is happy with the date. He is due for R phaco/IOL under L.A. He says he can manage with LA, he agrees that he will avoid a GA as he has had previous history of MI and stent 3 years ago.
This 84 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  History: 3/12 review. Traby RE June 2014. 2010: LE Trabeculectomy Peterborough Bilateral pseudophakia LE amblyopia g. Monoprost nocte LE; g. Trusopt nocte LE  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole Intra-ocular pressure: right: 11 mmHg left: 15 mmHg Good functioning right trabeculectomy bleb. Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Primary open angle glaucoma Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Blepharitis  She should continue on Teusopt and Monopost to the left eye. Eye-lid hygiene advised. HyloTear 0.1% eyedrops PRN both eyes.  She will be seen again in the clinic in 4 months.
This 8 year old boy was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rupture of globe  - Operation: Right Corneal wound suture, Right Aspiration of lens, Right Anterior vitrectomy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: 1. L > R Cortical Cataract  VA R 6/9-1 ph 6/9 +2, L 6/12-2 ph 6/12  This lady is keen for left cataract surgery. I have explained the risks/benefits of Left cataracts urgency and lens implant under L.A. Patient understands and is happy to proceed. She would like to be left emmetropic.  She mentioned that one of her eye, possibly the left has mild amblyopia, therefore I have given a guarded prognosis with the visual outcome.  She is to contact our admission officers to confirm date for surgery and an out-patient pre-assessment (biometry).
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman who I saw in Medical Retinal Service today.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Pinhole  Diagnosis: Bilateral hypertensive retinopathy Bilateral non proliferative diabetic retinopathy Bilateral visually significant cataracts  Blood pressure today 157/97 Randon blood sugar: 10.8 mmol/L  Mrs ######## has noted a gradual decline in her vision over the last year and a visit to her optician showed widespread retinal haemorrhages which prompted her referral here. She is a long standing history of poorly controlled  hypertension and diabetes, and recently has been diagnosed with impaired renal function secondary to above. She tells me that is now undergoing investigations to address the above.   From an ophthalmic perspective she has visually significant cataracts in both eyes and evidence of non proliferative diabetic retinopathy and hypertensive retinopathy. There is no macula odema or and retinal neovascualrisation that requires immediate treatment. However, she will need to be closely monitored. She will also benefit from cataract surgery, but this is best done in the context opf stable retinal disease. I have given her information on cataract surgery and I have suggested that she tries to optimise her blood sugar levels and blood pressure with yourself.   We will review her in 3 months and we can consider cataract surgery then if appropriate. I have also suggested a formal refraction with us in teh near future.
This gentleman has a lower pressure in his left eye now than previously documented (4mmHg) but his corrected acuities are: right 6/5-2 corrected and left 6/9 (stable) and there are no sequelae of hypotony in his left eye.  I have advised him of symptoms to look out given the low pressure.  He should also wear a shield at night and be careful not to rub his eye or do any heavy lifting.  His right eye looks to be settling down well after his cataract surgery 5 weeks ago. I have given hi another subconjuinctival injection of dexamethasone and lignocaine as his right bleb is looking a little inflamed.  He has no uveitis but he does have a small area of retained cortical lens matter in his right anterior chamber which happens very occasionally after cataract surgery, particularly in myopic patients.  We have planned to remove this under local anaesthetic in the new year but will see him again before, as if it is adsorbed spontaneously then we can cancel this operation.  In the interim his drops are:  g decxamethasone PF 6 x day RIGHT eye until review g chlorampheicol PF  QDS RIGHT eye 5 days
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left Cataract            Right previous Retinal Detachment   Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 17/11/14   Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex  twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/9                     Left:             6/6 IOP: Right:     16       mm/Hg   Left:  15                mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan:1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
This 64 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. Principal diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Left Cortical cataract   He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole   He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 74 year old woman attended the clinic for a postoperative visit. Her right eye has settled very well following cataract surgery and she is keen to proceed with left cataract surgery.  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
This 61 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right vitreous haemorrhage  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Panretinal photocoagulation, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 weeks time.
This 45 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.  - Diagnosis: Bilateral proliferative diabetic retinopathy  - Operation: Left Panretinal photocoagulation  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Booked for RE indirect PRP under LAs over next 1-2 weeks.
This 81 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rupture of globe   - Operation: Left Repair of penetrating injury  She has been prescribed Moxifloxacin 0.5% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) Until review Moxifloxacin 400mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) od PO for 10 days Acetazolamide 250mg modified release capsules, 1 capsule(s) bd PO for 5 days Co-codamol 30/500 capsules, 1 capsule(s) qid PO for 5 days Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) Until review.   No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow morning at Ealing Hospital.
This patient attended for their routine follow up appointment in the early keratoconus monitoring clinic where examination and corneal topography show signs of progression of keratoconus in the right left eye both eyes.  Best corrected visual acuity was measured as: RE: 6/6- LE: 6/12  We have discussed the risks and benefits of corneal cross-linking and have listed this patient to have the treatment in both eyes.
This 64 year old woman attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic.   History: 2/52 history of worsening blurring of vision RE history of dry macula oedema BE Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided Posterior segment: right: drusen para-foveal macula oedema left: nasal haemorrhage Principal diagnosis: Right Cystoid macular oedema   She has been prescribed Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Right) for 1 month, as her pressure in the right eye was 30 on arrival. I note normal discs in both eyes.
Thank you very much for referring this 17 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   History: 2/12 history of itchy eyes L+R history of asthma, eczema and hayfever now painful eyes Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/6 Pinhole Anterior segment: right: Florid PEE's Cobblestone papillae left: Florid PEE's Cobblestone papillae Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Seasonal allergic conjunctivitis   She has been prescribed Fluorometholone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Both) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days Olopatadine 1mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) for 6 weeks Sodium hyaluronate 0.1% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) for 6 weeks.   we will review her in 3/52
Thank you very much for referring this 63 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Macular retinal oedema associated with Venous retinal branch occlusion  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/24 Glasses  She has previously received a total of  8 Intravitreal injections in the left eye. Comment, l saw Mrs ###### in the clinic today. Her  level of cystoid macular oedema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion remains unchanged. She has previously received a total of 8 lucentis injections. We have decided in partnership with the patient to continue with intravitreal injections. We plan to review her in the clinic after re-loading phase with the plan to consider other treatment modalities if unresponsive.  She has been given G. Chloramphenicol 0.5% once only to the left eye.  She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 4 months.
Diagnosis: Right eye: Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:       Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and evidence of photocoagulation)  Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided  Injection Management: Right Eye: Treatment: Eylea Diagnosis: Macular retinal oedema associated with Diabetic macular oedema Left Eye: Treatment: Eylea Diagnosis: Macular retinal oedema associated with Diabetic macular oedema  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 1 months.
You kindly referred this gentleman with troublesome monocular diplopia associated with bilateral cataracts. We are planning to get ahead with sequential dates for cataract surgery in the near future and will keep you in touch with his progress. I have prescribed a short course of azithromycin 250mg once daily for 5 days and asked him to incorporate a 2 minute hot compress to the closed eyelids and daily lid margin cleaning into his daily routine to tidy up some mild blepharitis prior to his surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  Principal diagnosis: Left Nuclear cataract Secondary diagnosis: Left Visually significant corneal scar Secondary diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia    He has visually significant cataract and should benefit moderately from surgery since there is a corneal scar limiting the outcome.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he decided not to proceed with surgery since he would like more time to consider it.  We have not arranged to review him routinely, but would be happy to see him again if he would like to proceed with surgery.
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Epiretinal membrane peel, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of silicone oil  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This lady is a referral from the cataract service.   Bilateral pseudophakia  This Arabic-speaking lady underwent a left cataract surgery which was uncomplicated on 4/4/2016. Pre-operative vision was 6/9. Prior to surgery the fundus was reported as normal in appearance. The day after surgery, she noted vision had deteriorated significantly. It has remained unchanged since then.  ON examination there is retrohyaloid collection of degenerating blood at the macula. Inferiorly, there is a large elevated lesion with subretinal material surrounded by pigment. Immediately nasal to the left large lesion, there is a hamorrhagic lesion. On  ICG, there was extensive blocking and no macular leaking vessels could be identified.  Fluoroscein angiogram showed there is active leakage from the small inferior haemorrhagic lesion c/w a CRNVM  We will obtain a spectralis OCT at City road through the lesions and USS B scan to ensure there is no part of the larger lesion where the appearance is consistent with a malignancy.  The primary differentials are active eccentric disciform  and polyploidal chorioretinopathy.  We will see her in 2 weeks
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Left cataract.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole  She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis: R>L posterior subcapcular cataract causing significant symptoms despite good acuity Background diabetic retinopathy, no maculopathy  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses No maculopathy Intra-ocular pressure: right: 14 mmHg left: 14 mmHg  I discussed the risks and benefits of cataract surgery. Mrs ######## was keen to proceed. She understands that the aim of surgery would not be to increase the number of letters she sees on the chart, but to remove the area of blurring just off her central axis which she describes as a 'greasy film' which is troubling her. She understands the risks associated with surgery and the option of waiting until the vision worsens, but was keen to proceed.   She has been listed for Wednesday 21st October, and needs to arrive in the hospital at 7.30am.
Thank you for referring this lady with cataracts and right amblyopia. She is aware of a deterioration in her left vision and felt her right vision was slightly better than before. I have discussed the risks and benefits of cataract surgery with her and that this is her better eye. She understands the risks and would like to proceed with a left phacoemulsification and intraocular lens insertion under local anaesthesia. I have discussed the refractive aim options and she would like to reduce her prescription and has been warned of the risk of anisometropia she may or may not (due to right amblyopia) experience. She is aware that she may need her right cataract removed if she does experience anisometropia.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has vitreous fibris condensation after the endophthalmitis that she had in December 2014. The ultrasound show no signs of RD. She had a long discussion with Mr ## Cruz about the possibility of undergo to surgery and the risks and benefit that this choice implies. She has been listed for right vitrectomy, right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 31 Mar 2015.
Diagnosis:  Right eye:  Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Left eye:  Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Diabetes mellitus type 2  Bilateral moderate cortical cataracts (symptomatic, affecting visual axis on left eye) Hyperopia.    VA R 6/12-3;  L 6/18 improved through PH to 6/12    I've had a long discussion with Mrs ##### explaining her the option of a cataract surgery with risks and benefits of the procedure. She understands and would like to start with the left eye cataract surgery & intraocular lens implant. Explanatory leaflet provided.  Will probably need the other eye done shortly after the first one.  Emetropia is the goal in both cases. I have arranged for a review in the retina clinics in 3 to 4 months time, probably shortly following her cataract surgery.
This 74 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis:  Right eye: Mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NSC R1)                  No diabetic maculopathy (NSC M0)  Left eye: Mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NSC R1)          No diabetic maculopathy (NSC M0)  Type2 diabetes mellitus  Both eye Cataract RE PSC NS cataract    vision : 5/60 Rt and 6/18- ph 6/12 left     Patient is keen to be listed for RE cataract surgery. Risks and benefits were discussed      Review :after his surgery RE
This patient was seen in the cornea and external eye disease clinic today.  Diagnosis: Pterygium, bilateral S/p excision of left pterygium + autologous conjunctival graft 11/2014  The left eye has settled nicely following the surgery with no sign of recurrence of pterygium. She is keen on having the right pterygium excised and we have listed her for excision of right pterygium + autologous conjunctival graft under local anesthetic.
Diagnosis:  Primary angle closure Cataract both eyes Longstanding right corneal scar VA: R 6/36 (PH 6/12-), L 6/12 (PH 6/9) IOP: R 20mmHg, L 18mmHg  Mrs. #### has significant cataract and narrow drainage angles in both eyes. She has been listed for cataract surgery to her right eye in the first instance. This will have the two fold effect of improving her vision and opening the drainage angle. She understands the vision in the right eye may be limited by the presence of a corneal scar.
Diagnosis: Wet AMD            Bilateral Cataracts   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 3/60 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/24 Glasses  I saw this lady in the eye clinic. She has had her latest injection in March 2016 and feels her VA has actually reduced since she had this. I note that she has a fairly moderate cataract on the right which has impaired our ability to perform her OCT scan today.   I have discussed the merits of cataract extraction and explained her guarded prognosis. We have booked her for cataract extraction in her right eye and shall see her following this.
This 23 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left full thickness eyelid laceration with lacrimal passage damage  - Operation: Left Repair of eyelid laceration, full-thickness involving lid margin  - Prescription:  Chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment, 1 strip tid Eye (Left) for 7 days Cefalexin 250mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) qid PO for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 week time (ADCRFC).
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 12 months
Thank you very much for referring this 50 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral nuclear cataract.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses  Intra-ocular pressure: right: 17 mmHg left: 17 mmHg  Management Plan :   Discussed risks, benefits of surgery  and do nothing. Agreed to defer cataract surgery until more symptomatic. Discharged - GP to refer back as needed.
- Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on in Dec 2013 Right recurrent detachment macula off in Jan 2014 Previously right vitrectomy + cryotherapy + laser + gas 7/12/13 right vity + cryo+ laser + silicone oil + retinectomy 27/1/14 Right 360 degree laser 22/4/14 Right phako and IOL with removal of oil 2/6/14  Currently - right acute macular pucker (PVR)    - On-going Care Plan:  Listed. She has been listed for right epiretinal membrane peel and will be admitted on 15 Sep 2014.
New diagnosis of narrow angle glaucoma with phacomorphic component, worse in the right eye than the left. Intraocular pressure 25 right, 23 left. Recommend cataract surgery, right eye first, then left.  She has been prescribed Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) od Eye (Both) Until review. If you could provide refills I would be grateful.  She will return to see us for cataract surgery. For safety, an appointment has been made in 2 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 65 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was CF right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 71 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.     She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 65 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   - Diagnosis: lEFT  cataract I placed her name on waiting list for left Phakoemulsification and IOL under LA VA RE 6/6. LE 6/24 .6/6-1 with ph IOP was 20 mmhg in each eye, normal fundus exam, right pseudophakia
This 51 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/6 left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Referral for Glaucoma review  Mr ######## attended for a routine contact lens check for Keratoconus, he wears spectacles for the right eye VA = 6/5- and the left wears a rigid contact lens VA = 6/18. We have recently been monitoring his visual fields which are repeatably outside normal limits and he has some asymmetry of the disc cupping, R = 0.2, L = 0.55. His intraocular pressures are within normal limits (R = 12 mm Hg, L = 10 mm Hg by Goldmann tonometry at 4:40pm) but due to his Keratoconus these are unreliable due to his thin corneas (Pachymetry R = 529 um, L = 495 um).   Due to the repeatable field defect in both eyes, I would be very grateful if you would refer this 42 year old man to the Glaucoma service at Moorfields Eye Hospital for further assessment. We will continue to review him routinely in the contact lens clinic and see him in 6 months time.
Diagnosis: Bilateral intermediate uveitis Fundus flavimaculatus RE cataract  VA: 6/18, 6/12 PH RE;    LE 6/6  Mr. ####### is very keen for right cataract surgery as he has noticed a deterioration in his vision since his last visit and it is affecting his ADLs. We had a discussion regarding risks/benefits, in particular given his known retinal dysfunction, there is a guarded prognosis regarding the visual outcome. He was given a copy of the consent form that he signed today.  He was happy to proceed so I have booked him for right cataract surgery on the 16th september 2014.
Thank you very much for referring this pleasant 78 year old lady who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: CF Unaided, CF Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole  She had visually significant left posterior capsular thickening and should benefit from YAG laser capsulotomy.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of this treatment she elected to proceed with YAG laser capsulotomy, which was performed as an outpatient.  She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days.  She has a dense RIGHT cataract which should benefit from surgery. Unfortunately she has recently had an episode of left leg cellulitis with Pseudomonas wound infection and it would be unsafe to proceed with surgery until her infection has settled completely and the wounds are well healed.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again when she is ready to proceed with surgery.
Diagnosis: Left blind eye, previous retinal detachment, left bullous keratopathy, left band keratopathy. Right visually significant cataract No significant diabetic retinopathy, R0M0P0 right eye Visual acuities: 6/12-3 glasses, 6/12-1 pinhole right eye; no perception light left eye  Management: Listed for right eye cataract surgery following discussion of the risks and benefits of surgery; including excess risks and those associated with operating on his only seeing eye. James has been given a copy of the cataract surgery information booklet and a copy of the signed consent for surgery.  He has been prescribed Hypromellose 0.3% eye drops, 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) Until review Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) Until review.
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
Above gentleman attended for review today.  His right eye unaided is 6/18 improving  to 6/9 with pinhole.It has settled well and he is advised to reduce g.Maxitrol and g. Acular to twice daily for 2 weeks.  He is finding difficulty fusing images while reading and is keen to have left cataract operated.  He has been placed on waiting list for left cataract surgery under local anaesthesia.
Diagnosis: Ocular hypertension (OHT) Visual acuity: 6/5-3 with glasses 6/5-1 Intraocular pressures:RE 18mmHg; LE 21mmHg Treatment: g. Lumigan nocte BE Visual fields: FULL  I saw this 56 year old man for annual review today. There has been no change in his condition and no change in management is required. He will be seen again in twelve months time.
Diagnosis: Ocular hypertension (OHT) Visual acuity: 6/4 unaided6/6+3 Intraocular pressures: RE 22mmHg; LE 22mmHg Treatment: NIL Visual fields:Unreliable, optic discs (healthy) do not match with VF.  I saw this 42 year old woman for annual review today. There has been no change in her condition and no change in management is required. She will be seen again in twelve months time.
The above mentioned patient attended our clinic today. On slit-lamp examination there has been observed a pterygium on the left eye. His vision is 6/5 right (unaided) and 6/9 left (unaided). Intraocular pressure was within normal range bilaterally.  After discussion with the patient, we decided to list him for left pterygium excision with conjunctival auto-graft.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Right Cataract  Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 27/10/14  Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex three times a day for 7 days and then twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/12                     Left:             6/9 IOP: Right:     13       mm/Hg   Left:        15          mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
This 71 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral pseudoexfoliation of lens capsule. No evidence of glaucoma.  Examination: Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses   The intraocular pressure measured 16 mmHg in RE and 16 mmHg in LE.  Visual field tests did not show any reproducible defects compared to those performed at the opticians. Optic discs were normal.  She was reassured and discharged to the care of her optician.
This 54 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right cataract  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 1 weeks .
Thank you very much for referring this 58 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 3/60 (ph 6/12) right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Bilateral normal tension glaucoma R>>L Bilateral cataracts R>L  RVA 6/24 PH6/12    LVA 6/6-2  Dr Jayaratnam attended for a routine review in Mr ############# clinic today. Unfortunately both visual fields show evidence of slow progression. He is currently using G Azopt bd to the right eye only. He has tried different pressure lowering drops to the right eye in the past which have had limited effect. After reviewing the notes, Mr ########### has recommended drainage surgery (trabeculectomy) to the right eye. In addition he has advised starting pressure lowering drops in the left eye.   I have listed Dr Jayaratnam for a right trabeculectomy and prescribed G Latanaprost nocte to the left eye. Would you please continue to prescribe the new drop. We will review Dr Jayaratnam in 2 months to assess the IOP in the left eye.  New management:  G Latanoprost 0.005% eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte left eye.
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Nuclear cataract   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Nuclear cataract Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Drusen stage macular degeneration   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was  right 6/12 and  left 6/24 with pinhole.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 91 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today. He has poor vision in the right pseudophakic eye due to advanced macular degeneration  He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was CF right and 3/60 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol (with a guarded prognosis due to moderate dry ARMD)
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral mild Nuclear cataract   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery but with a guarded prognosis as his left eye is an amblyopic eye.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/24 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG); B/L psuedophakia Visual acuity:6/6 with glasses 6/9-1 Intra-ocular pressures: 16mmHg (RE); 14mmHg (LE) Treatment: g. Latanoprost nocte BE  I saw this 82 year old woman for annual review today. There has been no change in her condition and no change in management is required. She will be seen again in nine months time.
This 87 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  She has been advised to continue eye drops as prescribed.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 3/60 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left cataract surgery under local anaesthetic.
This 42 year old woman attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic. She noted an inferior visual field loss on Sunday (3 days ago) which worsened to involve the central vision on Wednesday morning. When seen yesterday in casualty her vision was 6/36 and she had a macular off retinal detachment. She was asked to come in today (starved) as there is always a chance that we can undertake next day retinal detachment surgery as long as there are not too many other urgent cases. Today, she has an almost total detachment with vision of 1/60.   We have had to counsel her that she unfortunately has a low chance of getting a return of central vision, and that any surgery would be done primarily to retain what vision she has left in the right side.   She was offered surgery under local anaesthetic today but was understandably worried about keeping still for us, so would like general anaesthetic. She will be placed on the urgent list for right vitrectomy retinal detachment repair, to happen at some point over the next few days.   She will need to stay nil by mouth from midnight on the weekend days, and from 6am on weekdays, so that when we call her by 11am to come in she is able to have a general anaesthetic.
This 29 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy not amenable to photocoagulation  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Delamination, Left Panretinal photocoagulation; Right panretinal photocoagulation  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 93 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has symptomatic cataract in the left eye and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/24 right and 1/60 left.  We have discussed the benefits and risks of surgery, as well as the option of not having any treatment at present. The risks of surgery discussed: 1:1000 risk of significant complication which could mean permanent visual loss, 1: 100 risk of requiring additional surgery for various reasons, 1:20 risk of a less serious complication, 1:10 need for a laser procedure to clear posterior capsule clouding within a few years after the surgery.  Also, refractive outcomes were discussed including a need to wear glasses for reading or distance after the surgery.  After fully addressing all questions and concerns, Mr ##### elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phacoemulsification and IOL.  He is aware that his current visual acuity does not meet driving standard criteria.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 3/60 Unaided, 3/60 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  She had visually significant posterior capsular thickening and should benefit from YAG laser capsulotomy.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of this treatment she elected to proceed and was booked for YAG laser capsulotomy.
This 60 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.  - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Injection of gas, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days Review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 67 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has a cataract in her LE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for le phaco+iol  and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Diagnosis:  Ocular ischemic syndrome right eye with iris neovascularisation and secondary anterior uveitis 2 x sessions of Panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) Confirmed with carotid doppler at Moorfields as retrograde flow in ophthalmic artery and around 66% stenosis of right internal carotid. Known cardiovascular risk factors Bilateral cortical cataracts (Left polychromatic)     Visual acuities: Right 6/12 Left 6/24   Partially regressing NVI in RE  BE significant cataract  IOP 13/12  FFA shows delay in arm to eye filling in RE to around 21 seconds.  Current treatment: Maxidex drops increase to 4/day in the right eye.  Mr ######## was seen in clinic today with an interpreter at the start. He was seen by Mr ####### and has now got a confirmed diagnosis of Ocular ischaemic syndrome, secondary to carotid artery stenosis on the right.   PLAN: He has had 2x PRP to treat iris neovascularisation, but requires further indirect laser as a day case, which will be booked soon.  He should continue G. Maxidex QDS to the right eye until we review him again in 2 months.
This 38 year old man with a RIGHT central retinal vein occlusion was reviewed in the Medical Retina Service today.   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/5 Glasses  History: RIGHT non-ischaemic CRVO follow up visit. Symptoms since 10/08/13. RIGHT vision has improved. No history of injury. He denies recreational drug use/smoking but did consume alcohol on the day of his symptoms starting. PMHx/Occassional pain in legs. "Burning in the muscle", no joint pain.  FHx/ Uncle had sickle cell disease.   Comment:There are no signs of neovascularisation at this stage and no treatment is currently indicated. He remains at risk of neovascularisation and we plan to observe him closely.   GP action required:   1) Cholesterol result = 5.0. In view of this cardiovascular event, your opinion on whether starting treatment is required would be appreciated. (All other bloods tests were essentially normal but unfortunately a fasting glucose was not done). Retinal vein occlusions are known to be associated with hypertension, elevated cholesterol and diabetes. I have asked him to have these factors reviewed with you in the next few weeks.  2) Patient also needs to have a routine ECG in view of this event.  3) Sickle cell screen testing today. We will keep you informed of the result.  Many thanks for your kind assistance.  Plan: Review in 3-4 months or sooner if deterioration
Thank you very much for referring this 90 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/36 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
We have carried out an FFA today to assess Mr ###### left eye. There is no convincing peripapillary CNVM on angiography, however the view was poor. We have listed Mr #### to have his left cataract operated on and advised him that there is a guarded prognosis due to his aging changes in the left eye.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: CF Glasses Left Eye: 6/18 Glasses  She received her lucentis injection today. The number of injection 23.  She is prescribed G.Exocin qds for 5 days. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 6 weeks.
Diagnosis:  Right eye:    Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC U and no evidence of photocoagulation) Macular epiretinal membrane  Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 1  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole   Her right macular epiretinal membrane is not causing visual problems at present. We, therefore, considered there was no indication for any intervention at this stage.    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 6 months
This 70 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/5 left. He has slight posterior capusular opacity but this is off visual axis and does not require yag laser capsulotomy.  He has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s)     then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  We have advised him to consult his optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review him routinely, but would be happy to see him again if any further problems arose.
Diagnosis:    Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with lucentis injection in the right eye. She does not need any injection today.  She will be reviewed in 3 months.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
Diagnosis: Retinal dystrophy Divergent squint  The above patient has been booked for squint surgery on the 18th of March 2014, which should be sufficient time for the botox injection effects to have worn off. She reports no diplopia post Botox injection.   We will keep you informed.
Thank you very much for referring this 50 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Diagnosis :  Right pseudophakia Left cataract Left epiretinal membrane with lamelar hole  RVA: 6/5 ua, LVA: 6/36 ua improving to 6/12 ph IOP RE : 12 mmHg, LE : 12 mmHg  She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol under LA with guarded prognosis.  The risks, the benefits and the postoperative refractive outcome have been fully discussed.  We have referred the patient to the Vitreoretinal clinic (routine appointment in about 4 months).
This 74 year old woman attended the glaucoma clinic for a routine follow up visit.    Diagnosis:Narrow angles Right and Left and raised IOP in LE.      Visual Acuity (VA): Right: 6/6 Left: 6/6  Intraocular Pressure (IOP): Right: 16mmHg Left: 25mmHg  Anterior Chamber: Narrow angles Right and Left  Visual Fields: Right and Left Full         Due to the narrow angles and the raised IOP in the Left eye, we have booked Mrs ###### for cataract surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 55 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant intumescent left cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and CF left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for left cataract extraction (LA).
Thank you very much for referring this 28 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today. She has a cataract in her LE. I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for LE phaco+iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 64 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 61 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right cataract extraction and lens implant
Thank you very much for referring this 73 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left cataract surgery  We discussed the benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently.  We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right cataract extraction and lens implant
Diagnosis:  Left eye: Macular retinal oedema secondary to Venous retinal branch occlusion  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 2/60 Glasses  Intra-ocular pressure: right: 20 mmHg left: 17 mmHg  Investigation: OCT OS: improvement in IRF, new lamellar macular hole  This patient was receiving a course of treatment with Ozurdex to the left eye. She does not need any injection today. We discussed the possibility of VR surgery for her new macular hole with Prof. Bainbridge, but this was now indicated, as it is not a full thickness hole. However, surgery may be indicated if she develops a full thickness hole in the future.  She will be reviewed in 4 months.  The patient has been advised that if they notice any new distortion on the Amsler grid, they should attend an ophthalmologist urgently within 24-48 hours.
I saw this gentleman in the clinic today.  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  RE is settling very well after the operation.He also has a cataract in his LE. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Macular retinal oedema secondary to Central retinal vein occlusion  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/96 Glasses  Intra-ocular pressure: right: 15 mmHg left: 20 mmHg (on Latanoprost)  She received her Lucentis injection on the left eye today. She was swapped to Lucentis as she has had pressure rises after Ozurdex injection. The number of injection - 1 on the left eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Glasses Left Eye: 6/36 Glasses  She received her Eylea injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 2 on the left eye.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
This 75 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/24 ph 6/6  right and 6/12-1 ph 6/6 left.  She has been prescribed: Maxitrol eye drops, 1 drop(s) bds for 2 weeks then stop  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
This 49 year old man was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   His Visual acuity was 3/60 on right eye and 6/9 on the left eye.  Diagnosis: Right inactive central serous retinopathy with focal retinal pigment epithelial detachment  Clinical Management: Observation  We have decided to review him in 3 months.
Diagnosis: Left Eye: serous PED. Choroidal neovascularisation cannot be ruled out  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided  She received her Eylea injection on the left eye today. The number of injection - 1 on the left eye. We have decided to give her a course of 3 Eylea injections. We will stop treatment if there is no improvement after the course, or continue if she finds it beneficial.  She has been given G. Levofloxacin four times daily for 5 days to the left eye. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.  She will be reviewed in 4 weeks.
This 86 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral ocular hypertension - transfer of care from Western Eye            Bilateral pseudophakia  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/9 in right eye; 6/6 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 15 mmHg in RE; 14 mmHg in LE.  Impression:Stable  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is Latanoprost nocte both eyes.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 6 months.
I saw this 64 year old woman today following her recent treatment for a Bilateral posterior vitreous detachment (PVD). Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.  Diagnosis: bilateral PVD old right retinal tear well lasered  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/6 Glasses Posterior segment: right: myopic fundus peripheal chorioretinal atrophy inferotemporal superonasal old horse shoe tear - well lasered Weiss Ring nil retinal detachment left: myopic fundus Weiss Ring superonasal and inferotemporal chorioretinal atrophy no retinal tears nil Retinal Detachment  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Posterior vitreous detachment   No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her from the clinic. I have given her retinal detachment advice, and told her to present to Moorfields A&E if she develops new onset floaters, flashes or a curtain across her vision.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Principal diagnosis: Right Traumatic cataract Secondary diagnosis: Right Ectopic pupil  Visual acuity: Right Eye: HM Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided  Conclusion: Booked for right eye, pupilloplasty, phaco and PC IOL. Complex case. BCL to do. Allow TWO SLOTS. Under LAS.
This 52 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left cataract  - Operation: Left Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) qid for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (RP) Vision: 6/12 RE; 6/24 LE  This gentleman has noticed a slight decline in his vision since his last visit in 2012. There is only minor change visible on his scans today and significantly the fluid that was previously present in his retina has largely regressed. This may be related to the Trusopt eye drops he currently takes. We have taken blood today for genetics testing and we will see him again for review in one year.
This 47 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral ocular hypertension.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/4 in right eye; 6/4 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 27 mmHg in RE; 28 mmHg in LE. Healthy looking discs and full visual fields.  Impression: Raised IOPs, no evidence of glaucoma.  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is Xalatan nocte both eyes. Please repeat this prescription.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 2 months.
This 66 year old man attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Diagnosis: Bilateral primary open angle glaucoma.  Examination: The visual acuity was 6/9 in right eye; 6/9 in left eye and the intraocular pressure measured 23 mmHg in RE; 24 mmHg in LE. Tilted optic discs with inferior thinning both eyes 0.80.  Impression: Signs of glaucomatous optic disc damage with corresponding visual field defects.  Treatment: The treatment that has been prescribed is Xalatan nocte both eyes. Please repeat this prescription.  Follow Up: A follow up appointment has been made for 2 months.
This 73 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/6 left. She has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 week.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right eye  phakoemulsification and iol on 21/05/2014.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right eye cataract surgery & intra-ocular lens
This 57 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Injection of gas, Right Laser retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days
Thank you very much for referring this 78 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol She was complaining of epiphora, syringing confirmed a bilateral partial flow resistance withing NLD, she is not keen on the DCR for now and she would like to see the outcome of the syringing first.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right cataract surgery.  She has dry eyes and I have prescribed her hypromellose drops to use as often as required (minimum 3 times a day) in both eyes until her surgery. We would be most grateful if her GP could re-prescribe as necessary.
This 71 year old man attended the Accident and Emergency department, and was referred on to the clinic.   VA R 6/9part L 6/24  His principal diagnosis is Left macular hole.   He has been listed for left intravitreal injection of ocriplasmin and will be admitted on 18 Mar 2014. We have discussed the risks and benefits of the injection, including a success rate of 40%.  We will of course keep you updated as to his progress.
This 41 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days
This 65 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left vitreous haemorrhage  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days
This 51 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days
We reviewed Mr ###### in the clinic today.  There was progress in LE cataract and we will list for surgery.  Optic discs have shallow cup and peripapillary atrophy. IOP was normal and the last visual field in June 2013 was normal.  Visual field should be repeated after LE Cataract surgery.
This 48 year old man with a L central retinal vein occlusion was reviewed in the Medical Retina Service today. Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:  Central retinal vein occlusion and macular oedema     No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Centre involving diabetic macular oedema(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Glasses Left Eye: 6/60 Glasses, 6/60 Pinhole  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 1 month for intravitreal Lucentis   Retinal vein occlusions are known to be associated with hypertension, elevated cholesterol and diabetes. I have organised appropriate blood tests and will advise of the results in the near future.
Thank you very much for referring this 57 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right cataract surgery
Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has bilateral cataracts, RE>LE. I think he would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to him. He has been listed for REphaco+iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
This 54 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
The above patient attended Pre-op Assessment Clinic today and is booked for left surgical iridotomy on 28 Apr 2014.  On examination patients blood pressure was 191/70 mmHg.  Please review and alter/commence treatment as indicated and kindly keep us informed of any changes.  Should you have any queries please do not hesitate in contacting me.
Diagnosis: - Right pterygium  VA: OD 6/36 (6/24 ph) OS 6/9  This patient has a visually significant right-sided pterygium and he is keen for it to be removed. He has been placed on an operating list for pterygium surgery.
This 70 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  He has been prescribed:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 84 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an minor improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 3/60 right and 3/60 left.   He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  R phakoemulsification and iol.
This 65 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was  right 6/9.  He has been prescribed from the date of surgery:  Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  The drops are very important to prevent post operative inflammation.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Right Central Retinal Vein Occlusion with Macula Oedema 2012            Right Ozurdex Treatment            Left Pseudophakia  Visual Acuity: RE 6/60 - PH: 6/36-1, LE 6/9 - PH: 6/6  Comments: I reviewed this 75 year old lady in Mr. ######## clinic. She feels her vision has remained the same since having her Ozurdex injection.  On examination, both anterior segments were unremarkable. There was a subcapsular cataract in the right eye. On fundoscopy, there were collateral vessels on the disc in the right eye. The left eye was unremarkable. An OCT scan showed minimal intraretinal fluid in the right eye.   I have explained to Mrs ####### her eyes appear stable. I have explained that it is likely she will need further Ozurdex treatment in the summer time. However, at this moment due to minimal amount of macula oedema in her right eye this would be a good time to consider cataract surgery. Mrs. ####### agrees and she has been listed for her right cataract operation in April 2014.
This 71 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/9 left.  She has been advised to continue Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop bd for 7 days, then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 64 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. Visual acuity: Right Eye: NPL Unaided Left Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole He has a cataract in his LE which is his only eye. We had a long discussion about risks and benefits and also the option of doing nothing. He is not keen to have any surgery at this point. No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him.Please refer him back to this clinic when he is happy to have the operation in his LE.
This 78 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  He has been advised to continue Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol. Consent signed by daughter.
Diagnosis:  Advanced keratoconus both eyes  Outcome: Listed for penetrating keratoplasty right eye with a provisional date of 3rd July at St George's hospital in Tooting.  Scleral contact lens fitting for the left eye  Many thanks for referring this 21yo woman with advanced keratoconus.  She had an episode of hydrops in September 2013 in the right eye, and her vision is now HM in the right eye, 1/60 in the left.  She tells me that she had good unaided vision up until about the age of 12.  Rehabilitation of vision in the right eye would involve a corneal graft, and in view of her previous hyrops, this would be a penetrating keratoplasty.  The left cornea is unscarred, and it may be that visual rehabilitation may be achieved with a scleral contact lens, although I understand previous attempts have failed.  I have nonetheless booked her in to see if we can fit scleral contact lens here.    I note that she has asthma and mild atopic conjunctivits today, but is otherwise well, and takes no regular systemic medication.    She enquired about sight registration, and she is eligible for this, although it may well be in her interests to be registered more locally to her home.  I have suggested she take this letter to see if she can achieve this locally.  We hope that eventually we may be able to get her to the situation where she no longer requires registration, but she may need assistance in the interim.
Thank you very much for referring this 76 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Left Phacoemulsification and IOL
This 43 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy, Right Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Right) for 7 days
Miss Sanders was reviewed in clinic today by myself and Professor Collin. She has been put on our waiting list for right re-do brow suspension with autologous fascia lata as a GA day case procedure. Baseline photographs were taken today.
1. Left POAG with good IOP control 2. Left pseudophakia 3. Moderate myope  This patient is pleased with the vision in the left eye following uncomplciated cataract surgery and is now keen to have cataract surgery. He understands the risks and benefits and was keen to be listed today.  He will return for surgery on 7th June 2014 under LA with sedation. In the meantime he should continue with G.Azopt and G.Xalacom to the both eyes.
Thank you very much for referring this 30 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has bilateral mild congenital cataracts which are not involving the visual axis. Indeed, his spectacle corrected visual acuity today was 6/5 right and 6/5 left.   Surgery currently is not indicated and I have discharged him from our service.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Left Cataract  Procedure: Right Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 3/4/14    Prescription: To reduce the G. Maxidex three times a day for 7 days and then twice a day for 7 days and then Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/9                     Left:             6/9 IOP: Right:      16      mm/Hg   Left:    18              mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for Left Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.  She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/36 left. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and CF left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right phacoemulcification with IOL.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol   We discussed the COMPLICATIONS, benefits, risks of cataract surgery and an information leaflet was given to the patient. We also discussed the option of conservative management, i.e. not doing surgery.  Benefits: good chance of improving the vision if successful Risks: 1 in 1000 of severe visual loss due to an infection and 1 in 100 of operative complications which may require another operation or limit the vision permanently. We will aim to correct distance vision after cataract surgery, however distance glasses are sometimes required after surgery to get the clearest possible vision. All patients will also require glasses for reading after surgery.    Following discussion of the risks and benefits we have listed the above patient for cataract surgery.
Many thanks for asking me to see this gentleman with his left non-epithelialising corneal graft. He therefore underwent a left sided lateral and central prolene suture tarsorrhaphy on silicone bolsters which I hope will protect the graft and allow it to become epithelialised. When he looks to the right the graft can still be examined, and if necessary the central tarsorrhaphy can be removed once his graft begins to epithelialise.  With kind regards,
She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 7 Aug 2014.   She has been prescribed Sodium hyaluronate 0.2% eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) prn Eye (Both) Until review Simple eye ointment, 1 strip nocte Eye (Both) Until review.   Please continue to prescribe the above - I understand she's had problems obtaining repeat prescriptions.  Many thanks
This 53 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/5 on right eye and 6/5 on the left eye.  Diagnosis: Right macular branch retinal vein occlusion - resolved  Clinical Management:  No haemorrhages were noted today. There is no macular oedema.   Retinal vein occlusions are known to be associated with hypertension, elevated cholesterol and diabetes. I was told that the patient's cholesterol was high,however she has not been started not on any treatment. Could you kindly review and do the needful?  We have decided to review her in 4 months.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right cataract surgery
This 22 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   Diagnosis: Decompensating exophoria.   Comment: Ms Haciepiri was reviewed in the Eye Clinic today. She has become increasingly aware of the divergent squint, particularly when she is tired or had alcohol to drink. Her symptoms mainly occur when she is looking at a computer screen for long periods of time and when she is at university while taking notes during classes. We discussed the pros and cons of surgery and have listed her for a right squint operation to bring the eyes back into their comfort zone where she will be able to control her squint better. We do not think she will tolerate an adjustable and probably wouldn't tolerate a toxin injection either.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      End stage diabetic retinopathy (NSC U and evidence of photocoagulation)) Diabetes mellitus type 1  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: NPL Glasses    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised. The left eye is comfortable with a cosmetic shell which is checked here every 3 months.    She will be reviewed in 12 months
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   His visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/12 left.  He has developed a posterior capsule opacification in his right eye which can be resolved with YAG laser capsulotomy. There is also a marked epiretinal membrane with retinal thickening.  He has visually significant cataract in his left eye and should benefit from surgery, but he would prefer to wait with the procedure until he is sure about his right eye prognosis.   He has been listed for right YAG capsulotomy and we will see him in the clinic a week after the procedure to perform a retinal OCT scan.  I have also referred him to our vitreoretinal service for evaluation of the epiretinal membrane.
Diagnosis  Keratoconus  Bilateral pseudophakia  Bilateral treated PDR   Mrs ######## keratoconus is stable. We once again discussed the options to imrove the vision in her left eye: contact lens or surgery. She is happy with her present level of vision and doesn't wish to have further intervention at present. I have discharged her from the corneal clinic but she continues to attend the medical retina clinic.
This 46 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Scleral buckle  - Prescription: Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 1 month Acetazolamide 250mg tablets, 1 tablet(s) qid PO for 7 days Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring this 55 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   Her principal diagnosis is Bilateral nuclear cataract.   She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and IOL and will be admitted on 29 Aug 2014.
This 63 year old woman attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.  Her principal diagnosis is Left macular hole.   The macular hole has increased in size and remains open. Vision is 6/18 left and 6/6 right. We discussed a further period of observation but the condition has worsened, and I think she would benefit from surgery and I explained the risks and benefits to her. She has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol, left vitrectomy, left internal limiting membrane peel, left injection of gas and will be admitted on 12 Sep 2014, local anaesthetic with sedation.  She apprecaites that the final visual prognosis is guarded.
This 67 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Bilateral cataract  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
This 44 year old man attended the clinic for a routine follow up visit.   His principal diagnosis is Usher syndrome with bilateral posterior subcapsular polar cataract. He is troubled by glare.  He has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL and will be admitted on 24 Oct 2014. He is aware that the final acuity will still be limited by his retinal disease.
I would be very grateful if you would see this 55 year old woman who gives a very clear history of sudden (over a period of a week) deterioration in vision in both eyes which has persisted.  She was referred to me as she does have early cataracts in both eyes, but these would not explain her level of acuity of 6/24 in each eye with improvement to only 6/18 with pinhole. She had a diagnostic refraction, which I couldn't find the record of, about 3 weeks ago and apparently this did not prove helpful.  In view of the incongruity of the history for presentation of cataracts and the disparity between cataract morphology and acuity, I would be grateful for your opinion.  I have given her an appointment for review with me in 6 months, but if you can find no other cause for her reduced vision, then I can see her sooner with a view to cataract surgery.
Diagnoses Hypermetropia Anisometropia Left reduced visual acuity Left esotropia  Comment Juliet's visual acuity is 0.100 logMAR in the right and 1.100 in the left eye. Prism cover test shows a left esotropia of 35 prism diopters for distance and 45 for near. On cycloplegic refraction Juliet is moderately hypermetropic; +4.00 diopters in the right and +5.00 diopters in the left eye. On fundoscopy both optic nerve heads and maculae are healthy.  I have prescribed glasses (Right +3.00 and Left +4.00DS); we will review Juliet in 10 to 12 weeks to monitor her visual development.
This 69 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/12 left.   He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol. He should complete his course of dexamethasone to right eye.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided bilateral cataract OCT no macular edema both eyes (noderate ERM RE)  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   I list the patient for cataract surgery today LE then RE.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right cataract surgery under LA.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Previous left ocular trauma Left moderate cataract- patient asymptomatic  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/24 Glasses, 6/18+2 Pinhole  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 9 months.
This 73 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.    He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  L phakoemulsification and iol.
This 72 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month Cyclopentolate 1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Left) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 42 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/5 right and 6/4 left.  She has been advised to continue eye drops as prescribed.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2 Cataracts (RE>LE)- booked for right cataract surgery Early right epiretinal membrane  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses  He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 6 months in the Medical Retina clinic.
Thank you very much for referring this 88 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today.   Mr ##### has right bullous keratopathy, presumably secondary to complicated cataract surgery.  There is no evidence of corneal endothelial dystrophy.  Marked iris atrophy is present, which raises the possibility of herpetic corneal oedema, however the atrophy could be well explained by his past right angle closure glaucoma.   I have booked Mr ##### for endothelial keratoplasty on the 10th November.  3 weeks prior, I have asked him to commence a course of dexamethasone.  This will help us to confirm the oedema is not inflammatory in nature, as is the case with herpetic eye disease.   We will see him in November.
Thank you very much for referring this 71 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   DIAGNOSIS: bilateral early cataracts. Old left retinal vein occlusion with pan-retinal photocoagulation. Diabetes - no diabetic retinopathy.  VISUAL ACUITY: 6/9 RE, Hand Movements LE  MANAGEMENT: discussed risks and benefits of surgery. Agreed to defer cataract surgery until more symptomatic - poor prognosis for left eye. Discharged - please refer back as needed.
This 86 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/6 left. Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops,  1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days. She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 84 year old woman was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.   Her Visual acuity was 6/12 on right eye and 6/18 on the left eye.  Diagnosis:  Bilateral  cataracts Peripapillary Choroidal neovascular membrane left eye  Clinical Management:  The patient is stable at the moment, she does not refer vision loss oo any problems in her daily life.  We have decided to review her in 2 months.
This 79 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL. He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery. His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/9 left. Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops,  1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days. He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
You have been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol, right removal of oil on 6 August 2014. Thank you.
The patient attended a nurse-led post-op cataract clinic today.  Diagnosis: Right Cataract   Procedure: Left Cataract extraction and Lens implant on the 17/7/14  Prescription: G. Maxidex  Once a day for 7 days then stop.     VA:  Right:     6/36 ph: 6/18                     Left:             6/9 IOP: Right:      13      mm/Hg   Left:     14             mm/Hg             Examination: On examination the eye looked well. The patient has been advised to complete the drops as stated above. If there are any problems in future, we will be happy to see the patient. No intervention from G.P. is needed at present.  Plan: 1. Listed for right Cataract extraction and Lens Implant (Date to be arranged)
RVA 6/12. LVA 6/9   - Diagnosis: Right nuclear cataract She has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
BVA 6/6.  Bilateral R0M0. Early left cataract.  I saw this 64 year old man today following his recent treatment for a Right pseudophakia. Everything is stable and no further treatment is required.  No further follow up is required, and I have discharged him from the clinic.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Early proliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Early proliferative retinopathy(NSC R3S and evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Cataract Diabetes mellitus type 2    She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 3-4 Months
This 51 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her visual acuity was 6/9+1 right and 6/9 with glasses left.  She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 84 year old man was reviewed in the Medical Retinal Service today.  His Visual acuity was Counting finger on right eye and 2/60 on the left eye. Diagnosis: Bilateral adult vitelliform macular dystrophy Clinical Management:I referred him to our low vision clinic We have decided to review him in 9 months.
This 66 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Her unaided vision was 3/60 ph 6/18 right and6/6-3 left.  She has been asked to continue tapering her drops  G Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops,      1 drop qid for 14 days    then 1 drop bd for 14 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      No retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  She has been booked for left cataract surgery in October.   She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.
This 78 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  His visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/9 left.  He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  The patient wants to wait till april to have other eye done. I have explained anisometropia to him and he understands and we will simply see him in 6 months
Diagnosis: Cataracts Left branch retinal vein occlusion with macular oedema treated with 3x lucentis Mild nonproliferatve diabetic retinopathy  Visual acuity: Right 6/9 Left 3/60  Mrs ######### has been listed for left cataract surgery to be combined with an ozurdex injection. She is aware of the guarded visual prognosis.
Thank you very much for referring this 88 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for Right phaco and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/4 right and 6/12 left.  I fully discussed with this gentleman about the risk, the benefits of LE cataract surgery with a particular regard to the higher risk of having a postoperative retinal detachment and to the guarded prognosis due to previous vitrectomy; this gentleman was keen on LE cataract surgery and has been booked for LE phaco-IOL.
Thank you very much for referring this 80 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Left eye phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  With kind regards,
Thank you very much for referring this 73 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/24 right and PL left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery in his only eye he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   Right eye phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  With kind regards,
This 70 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: PL Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided  He has a hypermature cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery. He has been advised of a higher risk of complications due to the advanced nature of the cataract.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  Right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was  right6/24 and  left 6/18.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
Thank you very much for referring this 73 year old man whom I saw in the clinic today. He has noticed deterioration of vision and distortion in the right eye. He has right epiretinal membrane.  We discussed this, and the benefits and risks of surgery. He is keen to proceed.  He has been listed for right vitrectomy, right epiretinal membrane peel, right phakoemulsification and iol and will be admitted on 16 Jan 2015.
Diagnosis:   Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman to the Cataract Service today.   She has symptomatic cataract and the following vision:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses Left Eye: 6/36 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole  After discussing risks and benefits of surgery we have agreed to proceed with  Right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthesia.  She has been placed on the waiting list accordingly.
Diagnosis:   Thank you very much for referring this 74 year old man to the Cataract Service today.   He has symptomatic cataract and the following vision:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  After discussing risks and benefits of surgery we have agreed to proceed with  Right cataract extraction and lens implant under local anaesthesia.  He has been placed on the waiting list accordingly.
Diagnosis:  Right Eye: Choroidal retinal neovascularisation secondary to Age related macular degeneration   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/36 Unaided Left Eye: CF Unaided  She received her Lucentis injection to the right eye today. The number of injection - 5 on the right eye.    She has been given G. Optive for as required lubrication. She is aware that she should report to eye casualty if she experiences any pain, redness, decreased vision or sudden onset of floaters.    She will be reviewed in 5 weeks.
This 46 year old man was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula off  - Operation: Right Vitrectomy, Right Injection of gas, Right Cryotherapy retinopexy  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. He has been given an appointment for post-operative review tomorrow and in 2 weeks time.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Pseudophakia Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation)  Left eye:      Moderate cataract Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided  Mrs ##### has significant cataract in the left eye, and is keen on surgery, so we have listed her for this. We have also prescribed lubricant drops.
It was a pleasure to see Mrs ####### a nursing colleague in clinic today.  As you say, she has a very significant history of right sided epiphora.  Our assessment today indicates that this is due to nasolacrimal duct obstruction.  I have explained to her that she will require DCR lacrimal drainage surgery in order to improve her symptoms and she is keen to proceed.  We will arrange this for endonasal procedure to be booked under general anaesthesia in the near future.
Diagnosis: Normal tension glaucoma  Treatment: Ganfort mane both eyes; Azopt bd both eyes  Follow-up: Listed for right trabeculectomy + MMC, LA daycase  Mrs ####### pressures were right: 15 mmHg, left: 16 mmHg.  She had progression of her right visual field and after discussion with her and Miss Jones we have listed her for right trabeculectomy.  I have asked her to stop the alphagan and continue with the treatment above.  I note that her blood pressure dips at night 110/50 and 85/50 compared to a day peak of 156/90.  She clearly needs blood pressure medication but I wonder whether a drug like losartan in the morning (she was intolerant to ramipril) might reduce the risk of nocturnal dipping which may be making her glaucoma worse.  I am not, however, an expert in blood pressure medication and will leave this in your hands.   If you do change her medication, I would be very grateful if you could arrange to repeat her 24h BP and give the results to her to bring to us.  With many thanks
Thank you very much for referring this 86 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phacoemulsification and lens implant Please send us the results of the blood tests that the patient had with regards to the reduction in the vision in his right eye so that they can be reviewed in his next appointment with the general ophthalmology clinic.On that appointment he will also have refraction and a visual field test.  I would also really appreciate it if you could also arrange transport for him for his surgery since it is very difficult for him to attend on his own.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1A and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Moderate nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Right visual acuity 6/9 Left visual acuity  6/9  Mr ##### has retinal microaneurysms very proximal to his right fovea, and multiple cotton wool spots bilaterally.  His blood pressure today is 166/92. His blood sugar level is 19.7 mmol/L.  I have requested HbA1C today, lipids levels, renal function and liver function tests.  GP ACTION: This patient needs urgent review regarding his elevated blood sugar levels and blood pressure. I have emphasised the importance of this on his general health and his diabetic retinopathy.  He will be reviewed in 3 months.
unfortunately this patients conjunctiva is not heeling well and the haptic is becoming exposed.  He has been prescribed Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days.  He has been listed for right conjunctival flap and will be admitted on 8 Oct 2014.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phacoemulsification and IOL.   Finally we are going to perform a visual field test after the operation.
This 90 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole   He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 87 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9 right and  6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:   Left eye phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant.  With kind regards,
Thank you very much for referring this 47 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/6 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
This patient was reviewed in the Medical Retina Service today. He has central changes in the right eye which is an advanced stage of age-related macular degeneration.  Currently, there is no effective treatment for this type of lesion. I have given him an Amsler grid to monitor for distortion. If there is new distortion or a new central scotoma, he knows to present to an ophthalmologist within 48 hours for review. He has been referred to the low visual aid clinic for assessment.  This condition is likely to be stable or only slowly pregressive and I have not arranged routine clinic review.
Thank you very much for referring this 81 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: left phakoemulsification and iol
This lady has significant cataract in her right eye reducing vision to 6/24. She has been placed on waiting list for  right  cataract surgery. Left eye has early cataract and vision remains good 6/6.
This 72 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  Principal diagnosis: Left Cortical cataract Secondary diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia   She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided, 6/6 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole   She has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 66 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was  right6/6 and  left6/12.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: keratoconus  I saw this nice patient for her review today. She has stable keratoconus, more advanced in the left eye than the right. She manages with contact lenses although the left vision is not as good as the right, even with correction.   She is troubled by photophobia. We discussed the option of left corneal transplantation which has been explained several times in the past. I explained the risks of the surgery and the visual expectations.  The patient is keen on having the surgery, and she has therefore been booked for corneal grafting left eye.
This 51 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left rhegmatogenous retinal detachment - macula on  - Operation: Left Vitrectomy, Left Cryotherapy retinopexy, Left Injection of gas  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 2 weeks time.
This 53 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: HM Unaided Left Eye: 6/36 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole   He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 1 month.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 83 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today . Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Left Postoperative cystoid macular oedema  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole    The eye is settling down well from the cataract surgery in his left eye in June 2014, but an OCT scan indicates that he has developed post-operative cystoid macular oedema and will need to continue with topical medication.  He has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) Until review Ketorolac 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) Until review Apraclonidine 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) tid Eye (Left) Until review Bimatoprost 0.3mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) nocte Eye (Right) Until review.  We will review him in 8 weeks time.
Thank you very much for referring Ms Murray who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/12 right and 6/12 left. Eyes otherwise healthy.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 60 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/9niph right and 6/5 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: Right Phacoemulsification and IOL
Mr ######## attended the Glaucoma clinic today.  He is on Duotrav to the right eye and intraocular pressure is satisfactory. He has a cataract to the right eye, making fundal examination difficult.  I have listed him for cataract surgery, but he is aware that visual prognosis is guarded.  He will continue to use Duotrav and we will see him again in 5-6 months time.
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 41 year old man who was reviewed in the cataract clinic today 4 months since his right phacoemulsification and lens implant.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Keratoconus Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Chronic allergic conjunctivitis Secondary diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Left Cortical cataract  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 1/60 Unaided, 6/24 Pinhole  He has noticed some improvement in his vision in the right eye and would like to be operated for his cataract in the left eye.In view of his significant bilateral keratoconus I would really appreciate your opinion on possible co management of the two conditions to optimize as much as possible the visual outcome.He currently cannot work due to his visual problems   Prescription: Carmellose 1% single use eye drops (No Preservative), 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Both) Until review Olopatadine 1mg in 1ml eye drops, 1 drop(s) bd Eye (Both) Until review  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication.
This 81 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Right Phakoemulsification and IOL.  Principal diagnosis: Left Cataract Secondary diagnosis: Right Pseudophakia   He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/5 Unaided Left Eye: 6/18 Unaided, 6/12 Pinhole   He has been prescribed: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 14 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) 2 hourly Eye (Right) for 14 days    then 1 drop qid for 7 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol.
This 80 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL.  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Conjunctival concretion   She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole   She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) tid for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) bd for 7 days    then 1 drop(s) od for 7 days Ketorolac 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 3 weeks.  We have advised her to consult her optician for new spectacles.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose. Please fefer to our adnexal team for her  Conjunctival concretions
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol
This 72 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL. Principal diagnosis: Right Cataract Secondary diagnosis: Left Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Left Postoperative cystoid macular oedema  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  The eye is settling down well from the surgery, but an OCT scan indicates that she has developed post-operative cystoid macular oedema and will need to continue with topical medication.  She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) Until review Ketorolac 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) Until review.  We will review her in 6-8 weeks time.
This 84 year old woman attended the Glaucoma Service today.  Her glaucoma is well controlled at present and I have not made any changes to her medication. However, she has noticed that her vision has become more blurred in both eyes. On examination, she has posterior capsule opacification in the right eye and a left cataract. Following a discussion of the risks and benefits of surgery, she has decided that she wishes to proceed with a left phacoemulsification and intraocular lens, and I have placed her on the waiting list today.
This 45 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Right upper lid chalazion  - Operation: Right Incision and curettage of cyst  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been discharged. Remove pad in 4 hours and clean lids with boiled cooled water.
This 67 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following .  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery in the right eye.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for left phakoemulsification and iol.
Diagnosis: Congenital cataracts Secondary glaucoma Multiple glaucoma surgeries Corneal decompensation  Visual acuity: Right 3/60, left HM  Mr #### is now keen to pursue surgery to the right eye for his corneal decompensation. He has been listed for right keratoplasty - posterior dsaek and an admission date will be arranged shortly.
Thank you very much for re-referring this 78 year old man who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   He has visually significant right cataract and should benefit from surgery.   His visual acuity was  right 6/12 and 6/9 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery he elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol.  He complains of a film over the vision of the left previously operated eye.  No abnormality has been identified.  OCT macular images were satisfactory, visual field was within normal limits, colour vision was normal.  Media are clear with no capsular opacification following previous left YAG capsulotomy.  He has some left astigmatism and with glasses correction today he was achieving left 6/9.  There is no further treatment which can be offered for this eye apart from glasses from his optician.
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R1 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M1S and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/9 Glasses, 6/6 Pinhole  I reviewed Mrs ###### who was noted to have bilateral diabetic maculopathy on her eye screening photographs. The diagnosis is correct, but not associated with macular oedema and therefore does not require treatment. I have arranged an appointment in 12 months with a view to discharge to screening if the disease has resolved, which is possible if she is able to improve her systemic control. She would like to make an appointment for review with your practice soon to do this.  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   She will be reviewed in 12 months in the low risk nurse led clinic.
Miss Bowden was seen with Dr Peto in the Medical Retina Clinic today.  Diagnosis: Right eye:    Moderate-Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Moderate-Severe nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R2 and evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetic macular oedema not clinically significant(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2  She has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised. She will be reviewed in 3 months time.
Thank you very much for referring this 70 year old woman whom I saw in the clinic today.   History: Referral by optician for blepaharochalasia, she mentioned having a film over the right eye (like cling film) when looking at the right corner lasts very shortly and goes away when she holds her right upper lid open, she is fit and well with no history of ocular disease or surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/9 Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided Adnexal comorbidity: left: Zeiss cyst Upper lid,  blepahrochalasia (mild) right: Notched lower lid margin, blepahrochalasia (mild) Anterior segment: right: Mild nuclear cataract left: Mild nuclear cataract Intra-ocular pressure: right: 20 mmHg left: 20 mmHg Posterior segment: right: Several hard drusen left: Several hard drusen  Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Early Nuclear Sclerotic Cataract Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Blepharochalasis (Mild) Secondary diagnosis: Bilateral Drusen stage macular degeneration  She will benefit from routine health check with Blood pressure checking, I will leave this in your hands to manage.   She was given an Amsler's grid and instructed on how to use it and report any changes to the hospital. She needs to see her optician once a year.   No further follow up is required, and I have discharged her from the clinic.
This 65 year old woman was discharged from hospital today.   - Diagnosis: Left cataract  - Operation: Left Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: Chloramphenicol 0.5% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 7 days Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Left) for 1 month  No GP action is required. The patient has been advised of the importance of taking their topical medication. She has been given an appointment for post-operative review in 3 weeks time.
Thank you for referring this gentleman with cataracts. I have discussed the risks and benefits of cataract surgery and he would like to proceed with left phacoemulsification and intraocular lens insertion under local anaesthesia followed by right phacoemulsification and intraocular lens insertion local anaesthesia. We will arrange for this in the near future.
This lady has significant cataract in her left eye . VA 6/6RE,6/18LE. She has been placed on waiting list for surgery.
Further to a request to list for surgery, we have been unable to successfully contact the patient despite waiting for more than 3 weeks for a reply to an invitation letter and telephone messages.  The patient is therefore discharged back to your care.
Diagnosis:   Thank you very much for referring this 84 year old man to the Cataract Service today.   He has symptomatic cataract and the following vision:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/18 Glasses, 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole  After discussing risks and benefits of surgery we have agreed to proceed with  under local anaesthesia.  He has been placed on the waiting list accordingly.
Thank you very much for referring this 68 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   Principal diagnosis: Bilateral Pseudophakia Secondary diagnosis: Right Posterior capsule opacification  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/36 Glasses, 6/24 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Glasses    She had visually significant posterior capsular thickening and should benefit from YAG laser capsulotomy.   After a discussion of the benefits and risks of this treatment she elected to proceed with YAG laser capsulotomy, which was performed as an outpatient.  She has been prescribed: Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops, 1 drop(s) qid Eye (Right) for 7 days.  We have not arranged to review her routinely, but would be happy to see her again if any further problems arose.
This 61 year old woman was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following RIGHT phakoemulsification and IOL.  She has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided, 6/6 Formal refraction Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/6 Formal refraction  She should continue tapering Dexamethasone 0.1% eye drops as follows:         1 drop qid for 2 days    then 1 drop tid for 7 days    then 1 drop bd for 7 days    then 1 drop od for 7 days.  She has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery her elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  LEFT phakoemulsification and iol.
Thank you very much for referring this 79 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/18 right and 6/18 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for right phakoemulsification and IOL. Patient is aware that the visual prognosis in her case is guarded due to maculopathy and previous CVA causing homonymous hemianopia. She is also aware that the cataract surgery may affect the progression of macular degeneration and she is happy to take the risk. Postoperative refraction target is emmetropia. She understands that after the surgery she will need a pair of glasses for reading +/- distance.
Diagnosis:   Thank you very much for referring this 62 year old woman to the Cataract Service today.   She has symptomatic cataract and the following vision:  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/60 Unaided, 6/18 Glasses, 6/12 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/18 Glasses, 6/9 Pinhole  After discussing risks and benefits of surgery we have agreed to proceed with right cataract extraction with IOL under local anaesthesia.  She has been placed on the waiting list accordingly.
Thank you very much for referring this 77 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/9 right and 6/12 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  left phakoemulsification and iol
Diagnosis: Right eye:    Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Left eye:      Mild nonproliferative retinopathy(NSC R0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) No macular oedema(NSC M0 and no evidence of photocoagulation) Diabetes mellitus type 2   Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/6 Unaided Left Eye: 6/6 Unaided   Clinical management: dry ARM and NPDR with RE maculopathy but NO CSMO He has been advised of the importance of optimal blood sugar and blood pressure control in reducing the risk of retinopathy and maculopathy worsening. The importance of regular follow-up has been emphasised.   He will be reviewed in 6 months in the Nurse led Diabetic screening clinic on Monday AM.
Thank you very much for referring this 55 year old woman who was reviewed in the Cataract Service today.   She has visually significant cataract in the right eye and should benefit from surgery.   Her visual acuity was 6/24 right and 6/6 left.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery she elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for:  right phakoemulsification and iol
This 84 year old man was reviewed in the Cataract Service today following Left Phakoemulsification and IOL, Left Limbal relaxing incision .  He has noted an improvement in vision following surgery.  Visual acuity: Right Eye: 6/24 Unaided, 6/18 Pinhole Left Eye: 6/12 Unaided, 6/9 Pinhole  He has visually significant cataract in the fellow eye and should benefit from surgery.  After a discussion of the benefits and risks of surgery him elected to proceed with surgery and has been listed for: right phakoemulsification and iol under LA.
I would be very grateful if you would take over the management of this 73 year old woman.    - Diagnosis: Right cystoid macular oedema  - Operation: Right Phakoemulsification and IOL  - Prescription: g nevenac QDS right eye till review , to be prescribed by her GP  she has an unevntful right phaco +IOl in november 2015 and developped post operative CME. she did not respond to previous course of g acular as confirmed by OCT scan macula compared to previous visit 8 weeks ago. for your kind care and advise and for further management and follow up.
